AIDED BY
THE MAYOR AND APPROVED BY CITY
COUNCIL FIRST WILL HEAR FROM
PLANNING SERVICES REPRESENTED
TONIGHT BY JOHN BARRETT, THEN
THE APPLICANT OR THEIR
REPRESENTATIVE WILL MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION.
APPLICANTS WILL HAVE FIVE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION.
STAFF WILL KEEP TIME AND WILL
ANNOUNCE WHEN 30 SECONDS ARE
REMAINING PUBLIC COMMENT IS
AVAILABLE IN PERSON OR REMOTELY
.
WE WILL FIRST CALL ON
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE BOARD, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING A
PUBLIC HEARING OR DURING PUBLIC
COMMENT REMOTELY PRESS STAR
NINE IF LISTENING BY PHONE OR
USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE IF
VIEWING THROUGH THE WEBLINK FOR
PHONE ACCESS CALL 877 EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
AND ENTER MEETING ID NINE THREE
EIGHT ONE SIX FOUR EIGHT ONE
ZERO ZERO SEVEN CITY STAFF WILL
SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED
THEIR HAND USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEBLINK
YOU WILL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE ANY TELEVISION
BACKGROUND SOUNDS.
WE MAY ASK QUESTIONS OF EITHER
THE CITY OR THE APPLICANT.
WE WILL ACKNOWLEDGE ANY WRITTEN
COMMENTS RECEIVED BY THE BOARD
.
WE WILL ALLOW AN APPEARING
PARTY TO EXPRESS THEIR SUPPORT
OR OBJECTIONS.
THE BOARD WILL THEN DISCUSS THE
APPEAL AND FORMULATE A MOTION
TO APPROVE THE APPEAL.
FIVE AFFIRMATIVE VOTES OF THE
BOARD WILL BE REQUIRED FOR AN
APPEAL TO BE GRANTED.
FINALLY, ANY QUALIFIED PARTY
WHO IS AGGRIEVED BY A DECISION
THE BOARD CAN APPEAL THAT
DECISION TO THE WASHTENAW
COUNTY CIRCUIT COURT IN A
TIMELY BASIS.
>> ROLL CALL CANDICE PRIOR I AM
HERE TO GRANT I AM HERE DAVE
DIVERSEY YOU'VE ALREADY HERE.
CHRIS MADIGAN HERE.
SO DEAR CLERK GRACE WHITNEY
HERE MCDANIEL HERE.
I'M ECKMANN HERE.
CHRISTINA GLISSANDI HERE WE
HAVE A QUORUM MOVING ON TO
APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA.
ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS
COMMENTS ON THE AGENDA IF NOT
TO HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE THE
AGENDA?
SO THANK YOU, CHRIS FOR MY CALL
IN FAVOR.
I OPPOSED MOVING ON TO MINUTES.
WE HAVE MINUTES FROM THE
OCTOBER TWENTY FIFTH TWENTY
TWENTY THREE ZEBA MEETING.
ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS,
COMMENTS, CORRECTIONS TO THOSE
MINUTES THAT DRIVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE OCT MINUTES?
THANK YOU CHRIS.
SUPPORT.
>> THANK YOU DHARA ALL IN
FAVOR.
I PROPOSED.
>> ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON TO PUBLIC HEARINGS
FIRST WE HAVE PETITION ZIBA
TWENTY THREE DASH ZERO ZERO TWO
NINE ONE ZERO TWO ONE RABANNE
ROAD I'M GENDER ZONING
COORDINATOR FOR THE CITY
OF ENDEAVOR.
THE FIRST PETITION IS TEN
TWENTY ONE ROBIN ROAD.
THE PROPERTY OWNERS ARE
REQUESTING A SIXTEEN FOOT EIGHT
VARIANCE FROM TABLE FIVE POINT
SEVENTEEN DASH ONE SINGLE
FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
DIMENSIONS TO CONSTRUCT IN
APPROXIMATELY SIX HUNDRED
TWENTY SQUARE FOOT ADDITION TO
THE EXISTING EXISTING ATTACH
GARAGE.
THE NEW ADDITIONS WILL PROVIDE
ADDITIONAL VEHICLE PARKING AND
A ONE BEDROOM ONE BATH LIVING
AREA THE PROPERTY IS OWNED R1
BE SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
AT THE INTERSECTION RED OAK
ROAD, ROBIN ROAD AND HOCKEY
LANE IN THE UPPER WATER HILL
SUBDIVISION.
THE HOME WAS BUILT IN NINETEEN
FIFTY ONE AND IS APPROXIMATELY
TWO THOUSAND TWO HUNDRED AND
EIGHTY SQUARE FEET IN SIZE.
THE EXISTING HOUSE ENCROACHES
SIX FEET FOUR INCHES INTO THE
REQUIRED FRONT SET BACK.
CURRENTLY THE ENCROACHMENT
INCLUDES A ONE CAR GARAGE.
THE HALLWAY THAT CONNECTS TO
THE HOME OF THE PROPOSED
CONSTRUCTION WILL EXPAND THE
GARAGE TO ALLOW FOR WHILE
PARKING FOR TWO VEHICLES.
>> THE EXISTING BEDROOM WILL BE
ENLARGED ALONG WITH A NEW FULL
BUT BATHROOM THAT WILL ENCROACH
INTO THE FRONT STEP BACK.
THE PROPOSED ADDITIONAL
APPROACH FURTHER INTO THE FRONT
SIDE BACK BY TEN FEET FOUR
INCHES.
THE ADDITIONAL WILL BE
APPROXIMATELY THIRTY ONE FEET
FROM THE EDGE OF ROBIN FIELD.
TURN YOUR ATTENTION TO THE
MONITORS YOU SEE THE FIRST
SLIDE IS THE ZONING MAP AND YOU
SEE THE HIGHLIGHTED PARCEL AT
THE CENTER OF YOUR SCREEN IN
BLUE.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE LOCATION
MAP AND IT'S YOU SEE THE
EXISTING CONDITIONS IN
SURROUNDING NEIGHBORHOODS AND
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE ZOOMED IN
AREA PHOTO OF THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY AND YOU SEE ITS
RELATIONSHIP TO THE FRONT LINE
AND ROBIN ROAD AND HOW THE
EXISTING GARAGE ENCROACHES INTO
THAT FRONT SET BACK.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION AND THE NEXT SLIDE
IS A PROPOSED SITE PLAN SHOWING
THE EXISTING SITE PLAN AND ITS
CURRENT CONFIGURATION.
AND THEN NEXT SLIDE IS THE
PROPOSED AND YOU SEE THE
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE TWO
EXISTING AND ITS CURRENT
ENCROACHMENT A ONE CAR GARAGE
WITH A HALLWAY CONNECTING THE
HOME AND THEN THE NEXT SLIDE
SHOWING THE EXPANSION OF THE
GARAGE WITH THE BEDROOM.
NEXT SLIDE SHOWS A FLOOR PLAN
OF THE PROPOSED ADDITIONS.
YOU SEE THE GARAGE, THE
HALLWAY, A BEDROOM RIGHT HERE
AND A LAUNDRY NEXT SLIDE IS THE
THAT WAS THE EXISTING THIS IS
THE PROPOSED EXCUSE ME AND YOU
SEE THE EXPANSION OF THE GARAGE
WITH THE BEDROOM IN THE
BATHROOM RIGHT HERE AND YOU SEE
THE DASHT FRONT SET BACK LINE
AS A BY SUCH THE EXISTING
GARAGE AND THE PROPOSED
ADDITION.
THESE ARE PHOTOS THAT WERE
SUBMITTED WITH THE APPLICANTS
APPLICATION.
THESE ARE THE PHOTOS THAT I
TOOK ON MY INSPECTION OF THE
PROPERTY.
>> YOU SEE THE EXISTING GARAGE
IN ITS CURRENT CONFIGURATION
AND LOCATION.
>> THIS IS THE GARAGE ON THE
I'D SAY IT'S THE NORTH EAST
SIDE NORTH WEST SIDE AND IT'S
IN THIS RELATIONSHIP.
ROBYN ROAD IS TO THE RIGHT
OF WHERE I'M STANDING.
THIS IS LOOKING AT THE BACK
OF THE GARAGE AND THE BACK
OF THE HOME AND THE GARAGE IS
RIGHT HERE.
>> THIS IS THE GARAGE AND THEN
THE DRIVEWAY AND YOU SEE ROBIN
ROAD DOWN HERE TO THE LEFT.
THIS IS THE BACKYARD AND YOU
SEE THE BACK AND THE
EXISTING
CONDITIONS MORE OF THE REST
OF THE HOME AND THIS IS LOOKING
OUT TOWARDS ROBIN ROAD ACROSS
THE STREET AT THE NEIGHBORING
PROPERTIES.
THAT CONCLUDES MY PRESENTATION.
I'LL TAKE ANY QUESTIONS THAT
YOU HAVE THIS TIME.
>> THANKS, JOHN.
ANY QUESTIONS THAT JOHN?
I WAS A LITTLE UNCLEAR THE SO
THEY'RE ASKING TO GO 16 FEET
EIGHT INCHES INTO THE SET BACK.
SO WHAT IS REQUIRED SETBACK?
>> THE REQUIRED SETBACK IS FOR
THE AVERAGE WHOLE HOLD ON ONE
SECOND.
>> I'D LIKE TO TRY TO GET AN
IDEA ABOUT WHAT A 30 FOOT 30
FOOT FRONT YARD SET THAT 30
FOOT OK, SO THEY ESSENTIALLY
WANT TO TAKE ROUGHLY ABOUT HALF
OF THE SETBACK.
>> DO YOU SEE THE PICTURE ON
THE MONITOR RIGHT NOW?
YEAH, AND ON THE LEFT HAND SIDE
YOU SEE THE 30 FOOT FRONT STEP
BACK DASH LINE BISECT IN THAT
GARAGE AND THEN ON THE RIGHT
SIDE YOU SEE THE 16 FEET, EIGHT
INCHES, THE ENCROACHMENT RIGHT
THERE ON THE RIGHT HAND SIDE
WHERE MY MY CURSOR IS GREAT
GOOD.
>> YES, SIR.
AND WHAT IS THE EXISTING IT
CURRENTLY ENCROACHES WHAT DID I
SAY SIX FEET FOUR INCHES.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR JOHN?
ALL RIGHT.
IF THE APPLICANT IS HERE YOU
CAN COME FORWARD AND STATE YOUR
NAME FOR THE RECORD PLEASE.
YOU'LL HAVE FIVE MINUTES OR SO.
I'M PATRICIA KASKY.
I'M A HOMEOWNER.
I'M THE HOMEOWNER FOR TEN
TWENTY ONE ROBIN AND SO WE HAVE
LOOKED AT THIS PROPERTY SEVERAL
DIFFERENT WAYS.
FIRST OF ALL, WE REALLY WANTED
A USABLE GARAGE.
THE GARAGE THAT WE HAVE RIGHT
NOW IS NOT USABLE FOR OUR CAR
AT LEAST FOR TWENTY FIRST
CENTURY CARS AND SO THE IDEA
WAS THAT WE WANTED TO EXPAND
THE GARAGE AND SO WE ALSO WE'RE
LOOKING FOR SEVERAL DIFFERENT
WAYS TO DO THIS AND SO WE
WANTED TO BE AS MINIMALLY
INVASIVE TO THE PROPERTY AS IT
COULD MEAN LIKE WE DIDN'T WANT
TO CUT DOWN ALL OF REALLY OLD
TREES AND IN ADDITION THE THE
PROPERTY IS REALLY STEEP AND
HAS SIGNIFICANT GREAT ISSUES ON
BOTH SIDES OF THE HOUSE.
AND SO THIS IS LIKE THE ONLY
FLAT PART OF THE YARD THAT KIND
OF EXISTS ON OUR PROPERTY.
AND SO I THINK THAT'S ONE
OF THE REASONS WHY WE PICKED
THIS AREA.
SO LEAST AMOUNT OF LIKE GRADING
ISSUES AND THEN ALSO LIKE THERE
ARE NO TREES PRESENTLY RIGHT
THERE IN THAT AREA THAT SO WE
WOULDN'T HAVE TO CUT DOWN ANY
OF THE OLD OLD TREES.
>> I DON'T KNOW IF THERE'S
ANYTHING THAT I SHOULD ADD AND
I THINK THAT WHAT WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT IS TREES.
CAN YOU COME UP SO WE CAN GET
YOU IN THE MICROPHONE?
THANKS.
JIMMY BEVILAQUA FROM HIS
PRIVATE.
SO WHEN WHEN WE APPROACHED THIS
WE LOOKED AT MAKING A GARAGE
THAT RIGHT NOW CURRENTLY NO CAR
OTHER THAN KIND OF A SMART CAR
CAN FIT INTO IT TO SHALLOW
BECAUSE AT SOME POINT BEFORE
THEY BOUGHT A HOUSE PART OF THE
EXISTING GARAGE WHICH WAS SMALL
TO BEGIN WITH WAS CONVERTED
INTO A HALLWAY.
SO RIGHT NOW IT'S JUST IT'S
JUST USED FOR STORAGE.
SO IF WE WERE TOUCHING THAT
AREA TO TRY TO MAKE A USABLE
GARAGE AND THE MOTIVATION WAS
TO MAKE A TWO CAR GARAGE AND
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF HOW IT'S
ALREADY SET UP AND IT JUST SO
HAPPENS THAT IT'S ALSO THE
FLATTEST AREA WHICH IS BEST
USED FOR GARAGE.
THERE'S VERY LITTLE GREAT
CHANGE OF ANYTHING THAT WOULD
NEED TO BE MADE THERE.
NO TREES WOULD HAVE TO BE CUT
DOWN, NO MATURE TREES.
THERE'D BE YOU KNOW, SOME
BUSHES THAT WOULD HAVE TO COME
OUT AND ONE SMALL TREE BUT ON
THE OTHER SIDE WE'RE LOOKING AT
LIKE A THIRTY FOUR INCH OAK AND
TWENTY FOUR INCH DIAMETER MAPLE
THAT WOULD POSSIBLY HAVE TO
COME OUT JUST FOR THE DRIVEWAY,
YOU KNOW, REDIRECTED AND GET
IT.
PLUS YOU KNOW THERE'S THERE'S A
GREAT ISSUE ON THAT SIDE NOT
NOT AS PROBLEMATIC AS THE OTHER
SIDE OF THE HOUSE BUT WE WERE
TRYING TO BE YOU KNOW THE THE
LEAST EFFECT ON THE HOUSE
BECAUSE WE PUT THE GARAGE ON
THE OTHER SIDE THEN WE'RE ALSO
HAVING TO CHANGE THE PASSAGE
FROM THE GARAGE THROUGH AND
THERE'S BEDROOMS THERE THAT
WOULD NEED TO BE CHANGED UP.
AND SO WHERE THE GARAGE IS AND
THE CURRENT CONFIGURATION THE
HOUSE MADE THE MOST SENSE.
SO THAT'S WHY WE'RE JUST ASKING
THAT THE PROPERTY ALSO KIND
OF ON A PENINSULA WHERE IT'S
GOT THREE ROADS ESSENTIALLY
IT'S LIKE TWO PUBLIC ROADS
PRIVATE BY RIGHT AWAY THAT
SURROUNDED AND SO CONTEXTUALLY
IT'S IT IS KIND OF ISOLATED AND
SEPARATED FROM THE NEIGHBORS
THERE WILL STILL BE THIRTY FEET
FROM THE ROAD.
SO THERE'S A KIND OF GENEROUS
SET BACK FROM FROM THE ROAD AND
THE PROPERTY LINE.
IT'S ALREADY INSIDE OF THAT.
SO THESE ARE JUST
CONSIDERATIONS THAT THAT WE
WERE LOOKING AT.
WE DECIDED LET'S TRY AND KEEP
IT WHERE THE GARAGE IS AND TAKE
ADVANTAGE OF THAT.
OK, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER, TODD?
>> YES, I DO AND I DON'T KNOW
PATRICIA, RIGHT?
YES.
IN YOUR GINGERY OK.
I TURNED MY HEARING SO SO YOU
EXPLAINED WHY YOU COULDN'T USE
THE GARAGE.
THAT WAS ONE OF THE QUESTIONS I
HAD THAT WAS GOOD.
AM I CORRECT IN SAYING THAT IF
YOU PUT THE GARAGE ON THE OTHER
SIDE OF THE HOUSE BUT THEN YOU
HAD TO CHOP DOWN FOUR TREES
THAT YOU WOULD NOT NEED A
VARIANCE?
>> IS THAT CORRECT?
I STILL THINK THERE IS A SLIGHT
VARIANCE WE WOULD NEED FOR THE
OTHER SIDE.
>> WE COULD DO WE COULD DO A
ONE CAR GARAGE ON THE OTHER
SIDE AND NOT NEED A VARIANCE
BUT NOT NOT A TWO CAR CAR WOULD
GO INTO THE SET BACK FROM THE
RIGHT OF WAY AND I ASSUME
YOU'RE A TWO CAR FAMILY MOST
HOUSES OR TWO CARS.
YES, ACTUALLY I THINK IN MY
NEIGHBORHOOD THEY'RE PROBABLY
WHERE CARS AND ADULTS BECAUSE
WE ARE SONS, YOU KNOW, CARS.
SO I MEAN LIKE TOY CARS I WAS
TRYING TO MAKE IT HERE BUT IT
WAS ABOUT SO THERE'S THE
EXPANSION YOU WANT TO DO IF YOU
JUST IF YOU WERE TO DO
SOMETHING SMALLER YOU COULD
OBVIOUSLY DO A ONE CAR GARAGE
ON THAT SIDE RIGHT ON THE SIDE
THAT SIDE YOU'RE PROPOSING TO
DO THE TWO CAR YOU COULD EXPAND
THE CURRENTLY TWO SMALL GARAGE
INTO A ONE CAR.
YEAH.
AND HAVE LESS OF A NEED.
I HAVE A SMALLER VARIANCE.
YES.
A SMALLER VERY FAST OK I IT IS
IT IS PRE EXISTING I'VE BEEN IN
THAT AND WE HAD ALREADY TO
SHARE AND THIS IS ONE OF THE
REASONS WE ASKED FOR SOME MORE
.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER.
>> WE DO APPRECIATE YOUR TIME
RIGHT I WANT YOU TO SIGN IN
PLEASE.
THAT SHOULD BE A SIGN IN SHEET
AND A THANK YOU THANK AT THIS
POINT IF THERE'S ANYONE FROM
THE PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK
,PLEASE COME UP TO THE
MICROPHONE.
>> YOU'LL HAVE THREE MINUTES
.
MY NAME IS SANDRA CONKLE AND
I'M GOING TO READ MY STATEMENT
.
I AM THE OWNER OF THE PROPERTY
AT TWELVE OH ONE MINGLE WITH
WAY ON THE SOUTHWEST CORNER
OF INGLEWOOD AND ROBIN STREET'S
AND THE PROPERTY IS WITHIN
THREE HUNDRED FEET OF THE TEN
TWENTY ONE ROBIN ROAD PROPERTY
I OBJECT TO THE REQUEST BY THE
OWNERS OF THIS PROPERTY FOR A
ZONING VARIANCE FOR THE
FOLLOWING FIVE REASONS THE
POSITION OF THE PROPOSED GARAGE
IN ADDITION WILL BE NOTICEABLY
VISIBLE AS NON CONFORM TO THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THE PROPERTY ALREADY ENCROACHES
SIX FEET FOUR INCHES INTO THE
REQUIRED SET BACK GRANTING A
VARIANCE WILL RESULT IN
INCREASING THIS ENCROACHMENT TO
A TOTAL OF 16 FEET EIGHT INCHES
WHICH IS MORE THAN HALF THE
DISTANCE FROM THE HOUSE TO THE
STREET REQUIRED BY THE CURRENT
ZONING SETBACK.
I REGULARLY WALK THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND I HAVE NOT
FOUND OTHER HOUSES OR GARAGES
IN VESPER HEIGHTS UPPER WATER
HILL CALLED IT THAT ARE VISIBLY
CONFORMING FROM A FRONT SET
BACK TO THERE ARE OTHER OPTIONS
TO ENLARGE THE GARAGE WITHOUT
ENCROACHING FURTHER ON THE 30
FOOT SETBACK.
MAINTAINING THE UNUSABLE GARAGE
IS A CHOICE OF THE HOMEOWNER.
THERE ARE OTHER OPTIONS FOR
CONSTRUCTING A GARAGE ELSEWHERE
ON THIS LARGE PROPERTY THERE
ARE OTHER OPTIONS TO ENLARGE
THE GARAGE PERHAPS NOT DESIRED
BY THE HOMEOWNERS BUT THEY DO
EXIST.
THREE THERE IS A DANGER
OF SETTING PRECEDENT BY
GRANTING THIS VARIANCE.
THERE ARE OTHER HOMES IN THE
IMMEDIATE NEIGHBORHOOD WITH
SINGLE CAR GARAGES THEY MAY
CONSIDER THEIR SINGLE CAR
GARAGE INCONVENIENT EVEN
UNUSABLE.
SEEING THIS VARIANCE GRANTED
CAN RESULT IN WHY NOT US FOR
THE PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION
EFFECTIVELY CREATES A THIRTY
NINE FOOT SOLID WALL JUST 13
FEET FOUR INCHES FROM THE CURB
OF ROBIN ROAD.
IT WOULD BE OUT OF CHARACTER
WITH THE OPEN SPACES OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND A VISUAL
DISCOMFORT TO DRIVERS,
BICYCLISTS, PEDESTRIAN AND
NEIGHBORS.
FIVE THE PROPOSED GARAGE WILL
BE A DOMINANT FEATURE OF RAZVAN
ROAD DUE TO THE PROXIMITY
OF THE STREET THE CITY OF THE
ENTIRE LAND USE PLAN STATUS
GARAGES SHOULD NOT BE THE
DOMINANT FEATURE ALONG THE
STREETSCAPE CHAPTER FIVE PAGE
TWENTY SEVEN I BELIEVE THIS IS
A NEGATIVE IMPACT TO THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND I ASKED THE
ZONING
BOARD OF APPEALS TO DENY
THIS REQUESTED VARIANCE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
COME ON UP.
>> HI MY NAME IS ANDREA
BUNDOORA.
I LIVE ON HACKIE LANE AND HAVE
LIVE ON THE PROPERTY FOR OVER
50 YEARS.
I VERY MUCH APPRECIATE YOUR
CONCERN FOR SAVING THE
VEGETATION.
THAT'S A HUGE PART OF WHY WE
LOVE THE PLACE.
I JUST HAVE SOME QUESTIONS.
HAS ANYBODY THOUGHT ABOUT AS WE
INCREASE THE SIDEWALKS IN ANN
ARBOR WE'RE ADDING MORE AND
MORE WE JUST ADDED BROOKS HOW
THAT WOULD FIT INTO THIS PLAN.
I PERSONALLY WOULD LOVE TO SEE
A SMALLER ENCROACHMENT, A
SMALLER FOOTPRINT INCREASE.
>> I THINK THAT WOULD BE
AWKWARD TO ADD THE SIDEWALK
WHERE IS I?
I THINK YOU HAD A POINT I GET
THAT IT IS KIND OF NOT IN
KEEPING WITH THE NEIGHBORHOOD
BUT I DON'T HAVE ANYTHING
PREPARED.
>> IT'S HARD TO SEE FROM THE
YOU KNOW, THE VERY SMALL VIDEO
IMAGES I COULDN'T ACCESS
ANYTHING BETTER ONLINE BUT I
WOULD LIKE YOU TO TAKE A LOOK
AT THAT AND SEE WELL IN THE
FUTURE WHERE THE SIDEWALKS GO,
WHAT WOULD THAT LOOK LIKE AND
HOW WOULD THAT LOOK LIKE COMING
YOU KNOW, COMING UP THE HILL
ALL YOU CAN SEE IS A MASSIVE
STRUCTURE.
>> I DON'T KNOW THAT'S WHY IT
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU
.
HI, MY NAME IS PETER CLOCHE.
WE LIVE AT TEN FOURTEEN ACROSS
THE STREET FROM TEN TWENTY ONE.
ROBIN, I HAVE CONCERNS ABOUT
THE IT'S ALREADY ENCROACHING ON
THE SET BACK AND THIS WOULD BE
A SIGNIFICANT INCREASE TO THAT
AND IN ALL THE YEARS THAT WE
HAVE LIVED IN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD
IS THE FIRST TIME ANYBODY HAS
SORT OF VARIANCE FOR ANY
PROJECT AND THERE'S BEEN A LOT
OF RENOVATIONS, ADDITIONS AND
THAT SORT OF THING IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
I'M JUST A LITTLE CONCERNED
WOULD KIND OF PUT THINGS OUT
OF CHARACTER FOR THE REST THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
THERE'S ANYONE ELSE PRESENT
THAT WISHES TO SPEAK OR I WAS
JUST ASKING IF THERE'S ANYONE
ELSE PRESENT THAT WANTS TO
SPEAK IF NOT IF THERE'S ANYONE
ACCESSING THE MEETING REMOTELY
THAT WISHES TO SPEAK ON THIS
PETITION PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
IF ACCESSING BY PHONE USE THE
RAISED HAND FEATURE IF VIEWING
THROUGH THE WEBLINK THERE ARE
NO CALLERS AT THIS TIME.
>> THANK YOU JOHN.
WITH THE PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED AND WE'RE IN DISCUSSION
OF CHRIS THIS ONE SEEMS VERY
STRAIGHTFORWARD TO ME.
I'M GOING TO SUPPORT IT.
I THINK THIS IS A UNIQUE ENOUGH
LOT THAT IT JUSTIFIES THE CASE
FOR A VARIANCE THOUGH THERE IS
CLEARLY BUILDABLE AREA WITHIN
THE PERMITTED SETBACKS.
I THINK THAT THE THE NATURE
OF THE THE THE CHANGE IN GRADE
WITH THE CURRENT PLACEMENT
OF THE GARAGE MAKES IT A
REASONABLE REQUEST.
>> IT SEEMS PRETTY CLEAR TO ME
THAT IF WE WERE TO FORCE THEM
INTO THE BUILDING WHAT AREA
OF THEIR LOT THEY WOULD HAVE TO
SIGNIFICANTLY CHANGE THEIR
DRIVEWAY AND I THINK THAT'S AN
UNNECESSARY BURDEN.
>> SO TO ME THERE IS A CLEAR,
YOU KNOW, HARDSHIP WHICH
JUSTIFIES THE REQUEST.
>> I WOULD RECKON THAT THERE
ARE PROBABLY VERY FEW LOTS THAT
HAVE THREE FRONTAGES ALSO JUST
A QUICK NOTE THE DIFFERENCE
HERE BETWEEN WHERE THE ROAD
STARTS IN THE RIGHT OF WAY LINE
IS FAIRLY SIGNIFICANT, YOU
KNOW, FOR FOR A RESIDENTIAL
STREET TO HAVE YOU I SEE ON THE
IT'S LABELED ON THE PLAN IS
VARIABLE WIDTH BUT GIVEN THAT
THE RED OAK IS SIXTY SIX FOOT
WIDE RIGHT AWAY, I'M GUESSING
THAT THAT ROBIN IS PROBABLY
PRETTY SIMILAR SO I DON'T THINK
THAT IT'S UNFAIR EVEN THOUGH
IT'S NOT LABELED I'M GUESSING
THE AMOUNT OF AREA WITHIN THAT
THE RIGHT OF WAY WHERE THEY
HAVE TO BE SET BACK FROM TO THE
ROAD.
>> I MEAN IT'S GOT TO BE AT
LEAST TEN OR FIFTEEN FEET.
SO SO WE'RE ASKING THEM TO STEP
BACK FROM THIS RIGHT WAY LINE
WHICH YOU KNOW IS IN IT'S
COMMON, YOU KNOW, THE DRIVEWAY
LINE IN THE ASPHALT DON'T LINE
UP BUT THIS IS BIG IN A
RESIDENTIAL AREA AND SO YES, WE
WOULD BE ENCROACHING IN THE SET
BACK NO, I DON'T THINK IT WOULD
BE UNREASONABLY CLOSE TO THE
ROAD AND I THINK ENOUGH OF A
CASE OF HARDSHIP THAT THAT
SEEMS LIKE A PRETTY REASONABLE
REQUEST.
THANKS, CHRIS.
OH, GO AHEAD THEN.
SORRY TO BE DENSE ON THIS.
I GUESS I'M AGAIN CONFUSED WHEN
THE NEW IF THE NEW GARAGE IS
BUILT THE WAY THE APPLICANT
WANTS IS IT GOING TO BE ROUGHLY
15 FEET FROM THE CURRENT ROAD
OR IS IT GOING TO BE THIRTY ONE
THIRTY ONE THERE?
>> YEAH THE AFRICAN APPLICATION
STATUS BE ONE.
>> SO IF YOU LOOK AT THIS THE
NEW GARAGE WILL BE 31 FEET FROM
THE ROAD.
IF YOU LOOK AT THE OK IF YOU
LOOK AT THE MONITOR SO THE EDGE
OF THE ROAD IS ABOUT RIGHT
WHERE MY CURSOR IS AND WHEN I
WAS ON THE PHONE WITH THE
ARCHITECT WE I THINK WE
MEASURED ACCORDING TO OUR IF I
CAN RECALL IT'S ABOUT TWELVE
FEET FROM THERE TO THE PROPERTY
LINE AND THEN SO THEN IT WOULD
BE ANOTHER WHATEVER THAT
DISTANCES TO THAT GARAGE.
OK, YOU'VE GOT THAT YOU'VE GOT
TO DISTANCE THE FLAT LINE AND
THEN YOU HAD A DISTANCE FROM
THE PROPERTY LINE TO THAT DOWN
TO THAT ROAD OK SO THAT'S THANK
YOU FOR CLARIFYING THAT I'M ON
THE FENCE WITH THIS BECAUSE THE
THIRTY FEET IS A GOOD DISTANCE
AND THE PROPERTY HAS A BUNCH
OF TREES SOMEWHAT ISOLATED FROM
THE OTHER PROPERTIES ON THE
OTHER HAND I HAVE A PROBLEM
WITH THE APPLICANT SOLVE THE
SITUATION AND GET WHAT THEY
WANT WITHOUT COMING BEFORE US
FOR VARIANCE.
WE COULD CHANGE THE CURRENT
GARAGE.
THEY CAN ALSO PUT THE GARAGE ON
THE OTHER SIDE OF THE PROPERTY.
YES, THEY WOULD HAVE TO CHOP
DOWN FOUR TREES BUT THEY COULD
DO IT WITHOUT EATING A
VARIANCE.
SO IN ONE HAND I UNDERSTAND THE
NEED FOR A TWO CAR GARAGE.
I DON'T HAVE A PROBLEM WITH
THAT BUT DO THEY REALLY NEED US
TO INTERVENE AND DO IT?
AND THEN ON THE OTHER SIDE
THEY'RE THIRTY FEET FROM THE
STREET.
SO I GUESS I'D LIKE SOME
FEEDBACK FROM MY FELLOW BOARD
MEMBERS DON'T PUSH ME ON ONE
SIDE OF THE DAVE.
I'VE GOT SEVERAL POINTS I WANT
TO MAKE.
ONE IS THIS IS ONE OF THE
NEIGHBORHOODS WHERE IN THE CITY
THERE ARE INTERMITTENT
SIDEWALKS AND I KNOW RIGHT AWAY
ISSUE IS SOMETHING THAT'S
IMPORTANT BECAUSE SIDEWALKS ARE
PART OF WHAT PUBLIC
IMPROVEMENTS WE BUILD IN THE
RIGHT OF WAY AND I THINK WE
NEED TO TAKE THAT INTO ACCOUNT
WHEN WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
DISTANCE FROM THE RIGHT OF WAY.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT THE CITY HAS
PLANNED FOR ADDING SIDEWALKS IN
THIS NEIGHBORHOOD BUT I KNOW WE
HAVE ADDED SOME AND I DO KNOW
THAT WE FREQUENTLY ASK
HOMEOWNERS AT THEIR EXPENSE
ADDING ASSESSMENTS I MY BROTHER
HAD TO DO THIS HOW TO ADD A
SIDEWALK SOME YEARS AGO AT HIS
EXPENSE WITH ADDED ASSESSMENT
OVER IN THE ROAD AREA AND I
KNOW OTHER NEIGHBORHOODS HAVE
HAD LIKE TRAVER ROAD IN THAT
AREA HAS ALSO HAD THAT BURDEN
PUT ON HOMEOWNERS.
WE MAY BE GOING AWAY.
WE HAVE A CITY COUNCIL PERSON
HERE.
WE MAY BE GOING AWAY FROM THAT.
BUT THAT THAT TO ME IS AN ISSUE
THAT COUNCILS TOWARDS
PROTECTING AND MAINTAINING THE
FULL RIGHT OF WAY ON ALL
OF THESE STREETS THAT ONE WE
HAVE A PROBLEM WITH APPROVING
THIS BECAUSE WE NEED TO MEET
FIVE CRITERIA TO GRANT AN
APPROVAL.
ONE CRITERIA IS CLEARLY MET
PRACTICAL DIFFICULTY BECAUSE
IT'S EXCEPTIONAL AND PECULIAR
TO THIS PROPERTY.
I'VE SEEN THIS PROPERTY.
I'VE SEEN THE NEIGHBORHOOD, THE
SLOPES, THE TREES.
THESE ARE ALL PECULIAR THINGS.
THAT'S THE ONLY CRITERIA THAT I
THINK THE PETITIONER MEETS IN
THIS CASE PRACTICAL DIFFICULTY
WHICH WILL RESULT FROM THE
FAILURE TO GRANT THE VARIANCE.
NO, THERE ARE OTHER OPTIONS FOR
THE PEOPLE IF THEY WANT TO HAVE
A GARAGE IT DOESN'T HAVE TO BE
A TWO CAR GARAGE.
>> I LIVE IN THE BERN'S PARK
NEIGHBORHOOD WHICH HAS VERY
PROBLEMATIC STREET PARKING AND
OUR FAMILY PARKS BOTH OF OUR
CARS ON THE STREET.
THE ALLOWING THE VARIANCE WILL
RESULT IN SUBSTANTIAL JUSTICE
BEING DONE CONSIDERING PUBLIC
BENEFITS, PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTIES, RIGHTS OF OTHERS
WHOSE PROPERTY WOULD BE
AFFECTED BY THE LAW IN THE
VARIOUS SPEAKERS WHO HAVE COME
FROM THE PUBLIC TONIGHT CLEARLY
WITH THEIR STATEMENTS MAKE THIS
A NO IT DOES NOT MEET THAT
STANDARD AND FINALLY THE
VARIANCE SHALL BE THE MINIMUM
VARIANCE IT WILL MAKE POSSIBLE
A REASONABLE USE OF THE LAND OR
STRUCTURE AND I HAVE TO SAY NO
TO THAT AS WELL.
YOU HAVE FUNCTIONING RESIDENTS
THERE.
I UNDERSTAND YOU WANT A TWO TWO
CAR GARAGE BUT I THINK THE
IMPACT ON THE NEIGHBORHOOD WILL
HAVE TO WEIGH AGAINST
US.
>> SO I'LL BE VOTING NO THANKS.
>> MY GREAT POINT AS USUAL AND
MY FELLOW COMMISSIONERS VERY
TORN ON THIS ONE LIKE
COMMISSIONER GRANT THAT OF THE
VARIOUS FACTORS THAT SHOULD
HAVE ALREADY LAID OUT I'M NOT
AS NEGATIVE ON MOST OF THEM.
HOWEVER, ON THAT FIFTH ONE THE
MINIMUM VARIANCE IS WHERE I'M
HAVING A BIT OF A AN ISSUE AND
I GET THAT THE CURRENT GARAGE
ISN'T FUNCTIONING TO A PARK,
EVEN A SINGLE CAR AND THE NEED
TO EXPAND IT.
BUT I THINK IT COULD BE
EXPANDED TO A JUST BIGGER ONE
CAR GARAGE GOING LESS INTO THE
BACK AND I WOULD SUPPORT
SOMETHING LIKE THAT TO BE
HONEST IF IT WAS JUST EXPANDING
THIS TO MAKE IT A SINGLE CAR
GARAGE, I GET THE NEED FOR THAT
WITHOUT HAVING A FUNCTIONING
GARAGE AT ALL.
WHEN YOU HAVE ONE THAT'S TOO
SMALL OUTDATED BUT GOING THE
TWO CAR GARAGE WAS TO ME MORE
OF A NICE TO HAVE THAN A REAL
NEED TO USE YOUR PROPERTY IN A
REASONABLE WAY.
SO OPEN TWO POINTS PUSHING ME
THE OTHER WAY BUT I'M ON THE NO
SIDE OF THE FENCE RIGHT NOW
QUICKLY WITHOUT REPEATING
EVERYTHING THAT'S BEEN SAID I
AM VERY MUCH IN AGREEMENT WITH
WHAT YOU JUST SAID MIKE AND
THAT'S THAT CRITERIA IS KIND
OF WHAT HAS ME HUNG UP.
I'M NOT SURE THAT THIS IS THE
MINIMUM NECESSARY AND AGAIN I
WOULD BE MORE INCLINED TO
SUPPORT IT IF IT WAS A REQUEST
TO DO A ONE CAR GARAGE OR SOME
KIND OF EXPANSION AND WHAT'S
THERE THAT HAS SOME
ENCROACHMENT BUT MAYBE NOT THE
FULL SIXTEEN AND A HALF FOOT
ENCROACHMENT?
YEAH, I THINK THAT THIS MIGHT
JUST BE A LITTLE BIT TOO BIG
OF AN ASK.
YES DEAR.
I'M GOING TO BE VOTING AGAINST
THIS RIGHT AS EVERYONE ELSE FOR
SIMILAR REASONS ALSO IT'S JUST
A TWO CAR GARAGE IS A LUXURY
AND A CHOICE AND WITH YOUR
PARCEL'S LIMITATIONS THERE'S
CHOICES TO BE MADE AND YOU KNOW
IF YOU WANT TWO CAR GARAGE
USING UP PART OF YOUR LOT FOR
AN EXTENDED DRIVEWAY MIGHT JUST
BE THE COMPROMISE.
>> BUT YEAH, IT'S WITH
SOMETHING LESS THAN TWO MILES
FROM DOWNTOWN PURCHASING INTO A
CITY, IT'S NOT CONSISTENT WITH
CITY VALUES AND PLANS.
I DON'T MEETS ANY OF THE
CRITERIA AND IT IMPACTS THE
NEIGHBORHOOD NEIGHBORS
NEGATIVELY.
I JUST DON'T SEE IT AS HAVING
REALLY ANY JUSTIFICATION ANY
OTHER DISCUSSION QUESTION?
YEAH, GO AHEAD KRISTINA.
SO IF A SINGLE GARAGE, SINGLE
CAR GARAGE WERE TO BE PURSUED,
IT SOUNDS LIKE THEY WOULD STILL
NEED A VARIANCE.
IS THAT WHAT I THOUGHT I HEARD
THAT?
>> I THINK SO, YEAH.
BUT IT WOULD BE A SMALLER
SMALLER BUT JUST WHAT WAS THE
WAS THAT STUDIED?
>> CAN I ASK THEM?
OH YEAH.
WAS IT STUDIED JUST TO PROVIDE
A SINGLE CAR WITH AMPLE ROOM
FOR I MEAN WE LOOK WE LOOKED AT
AND YOU KNOW IT'S IT'S MAINLY
THE LENGTH FROM THE BACK OF THE
GARAGE THAT'S PROBLEMATIC NOW
YOU CAN'T PARK IT IS A LITTLE
BIT NARROW BUT IT'S MAINLY THE
LIKE FRONT TO BACK SO IT WOULD
BASICALLY BE YOU KNOW KEEPING I
THINK AT THE VERY MINIMUM WE
CAN TRY AND KIND OF PULL THE
GARAGE FORWARD WHICH IS KIND
OF KEEPS THE LINE BUT
ESSENTIALLY IS NO FURTHER
ENCROACHMENT.
I MEAN IF WE CAN USE THE THE
THE LINE OF THE EXISTING GARAGE
YOU KNOW, PART OF THE THING
THAT WE THAT WE HAD IN THIS AS
WELL IF WE WERE IF WE WERE
GOING TO HAVE A NEW WALL.
RIGHT.
IT'S KIND OF TO EXTEND IT BACK
FURTHER WHERE THAT KIND OF CUT
OUT IS IN THE BACK SO THAT THE
KIND OF HOUSE MEETS THAT LINE
THE GARAGE IF WE WERE TO DO
THAT SAME THING ON THE ONE CAR
JUST BASED ON THE ANGLE OF THE
HOUSE AS IT ANGLE TO THE SET
BACK, THERE WOULD BE A LITTLE
BIT FURTHER ENCROACHMENT EVEN
THOUGH WE KEPT THE SAME LINE
OF WALL RIGHT.
SO WE WE LOOKED AT THOSE
OPTIONS.
BUT I THINK WHAT ENDED UP
HAPPENING FOR US TO BE HONEST
WAS THAT IT'S STILL GOING TO BE
THIRTY FEET FROM THIRTY ONE
FEET FROM THE ROAD IS WHAT WE
THOUGHT AND WE THOUGHT THAT
THEN YOU KNOW, IN ORDER TO GET
THE TWO CAR GARAGE AND I GET
WHAT YOU'RE SAYING THAT MEANS
IT'S A LUXURY TO HAVE IT.
>> BUT IT'S ALSO NOT UNCOMMON
IN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD TO HAVE
TWO GARAGES.
THIS IS NOT KIND OF PART OF THE
KIND OF THE CITY WHERE, YOU
KNOW, HOUSES ARE BUILT RIGHT ON
TOP OF EACH OTHER.
IT'S JUST NOT SO OK.
THANK YOU.
THANKS, CHRIS.
I DON'T HAVE A QUESTION.
I JUST COMMENT SO YEAH, I'D
PROBABLY LOSE AS BAD HERE BUT I
JUST THINK I HAVE TO GO FOR
THIS ONE BECAUSE IT IT IT'S SO
CLEAR CUT THE CHALLENGES ON
THIS PROPERTY ARE SO CLEAR YOU
KNOW THE PROPERTY AND LABELS
THE LOT AT APPROXIMATE ONE
HUNDRED AND EIGHT FEET AND IF
YOU LOOK AT THE SITE PLAN
PROPOSED I THINK IT'S ACTUALLY
DONE WRONG BECAUSE THEY HAVE A
FIVE FOOT SETBACK ON WHAT IS I
CONSIDER THE REAR PROPERTY
LINE.
I THINK WE WOULD ACTUALLY HAVE
TO PAY A 40 FOOT SETBACK
BECAUSE THERE'S GOT TO BE A NO
IT'S JUST A SIDE THE REAR
SETBACK IS ON THE HOCKEY LANE
SIGN BECAUSE IS THE HERE ARE
THE OPPOSITE ONE IS ON A CORNER
LOT.
IT'S OPPOSITE THE SHORTER
OF THE TWO IN HERE FRONTAGES.
>> OK AND SO THAT THAT'S WHY
THAT'S ON THAT SIDE.
>> OK, SO BUT IF IT'S THE RIGHT
OF WAY FROM THE ROAD IS TWELVE
FEET AND THEN WE'RE ADDING AN
ADDITIONAL THIRTY FEET SO IT'S
FORTY TWO FEET PLUS THE FIVE IN
THE REAR IS NEARLY HALF THE LOT
WE'RE TAKING OUT WE'RE SAYING
HAVE TO BE SET BACK FROM YOU
KNOW AND AND NOT ONLY THAT THE
BUILDING TO THE LEFT CLEARLY
HAS A STEEP.
>> I CAN SEE THE THE THE CLOSE
LINES WHICH INDICATE A STEEPER
ON ON THE SITE PLAN.
>> I I THINK IT'S PREPOSTEROUS
THAT WE WOULDN'T GRANT THIS
THAT SOMEHOW TWO CARS IS LIKE A
LUXURY IN A NEIGHBORHOOD THAT
WAS CLEARLY BUILT FOR PEOPLE TO
DRIVE PLACES, YOU KNOW IN I
DON'T KNOW.
I JUST TO ME IT'S A VERY
REASONABLE REQUEST TO TO ONE OR
TWO CAR GARAGE IN THIS AREA FOR
SO THAT FAMILIES MAY EXIST.
THEY'RE AND I MEAN I THINK
WE'VE TAKEN UP SO MUCH OF THIS
PROPERTY WITH OUR THE WAY FRONT
SET BACKS ARE CALCULATED RIGHT
.
>> BECAUSE I CAN MOVE DOWN THE
STREET, BUILD A NEW HOUSE
THAT'S 80 FEET BACK ITS CREW
EVERYONE'S COMMON FRONT SET
BACK AND THEN ANYONE WOULD HAVE
TO COME HERE AND ASK FOR A
VARIANCE.
I MEAN THE SET BACK IS LARGE
FROM THE ROAD.
IT'S IT'S SIGNIFICANT FOR A LOT
THIS WIDTH AND I KNOW I JUST
DON'T UNDERSTAND LIKE WHAT IS
SO EGREGIOUS ABOUT WANTING A
SECOND GARAGE AND YEAH.
OR A TWO CAR GARAGE EXCUSE ME.
I THINK I'M ALSO STUCK ON IT'S
NOT THAT I THINK THIS IS AN
UNREASONABLE ASK BUT I AM STUCK
ON THE POINT ABOUT THE MINIMUM
VARIANCE THAT WILL MAKE
POSSIBLE REASONABLE USE.
LOTS OF US HAVE ONE CAR GARAGES
AND I'M NOT TRYING TO DICTATE
HOW MANY CARS PEOPLE SHOULD
HAVE IN THEIR FAMILY BUT I YOU
KNOW IT SEEMS THAT PLENTY
OF PEOPLE GET BY.
SO I GUESS I JUST THAT'S A
LITTLE BIT DIFFICULT FOR ME.
I DID WONDER IF YOU COULD
ENLIGHTEN ME WHAT WHAT YOU SEE
I'M NOT CLEAR WHAT YOU'RE
SAYING IS SO SPECIAL ABOUT THIS
LOT THAT MAKES IT SO DIFFICULT
.
>> SO OK, SO IT'S MARABA TO
BEGIN WITH.
YOU'RE RIGHT FOR A PARTY LINE
TO RIGHT NOW.
RIGHT RIGHT.
RIGHT OK.
YEAH.
WHAT RUNS THE LINK BETWEEN
THOSE TWO IS NOT PARTICULARLY
ONE RIGHT NOW AND SO THAT WE
HAVE TO COMPETE WITH THE THIRD
FRONT WHICH IS IS COMPLETELY
UNIQUE.
RIGHT.
PEOPLE DON'T HAVE TO COMPETE
WITH WITH THREE FRONTAGES ON
THEIR PROPERTY.
I I MEAN IT'S SO I CAN'T THINK
OF ANOTHER EXAMPLE.
I MEAN THEY PROBABLY EXIST BUT
UM AND THEN IF YOU LOOK AT THE
SAY LEGAL AGE 23 RIGHT.
THERE ARE A LITTLE BIT OF THEIR
FAITH BUT I BELIEVE THEY'RE ON
YEAH.
THAT'S ROUGHLY TWENTY SEVEN
FEET OF DROP FROM THE HOUSE TO
RIGHT.
YEAH AND THAT'S ALL IN THE
BUILDABLE AREA.
>> EXACTLY.
SO SO WE WILL BE SAYING IS NOT
HERE TO REQUEST EVIDENCE WE
FORCED THEM INTO AT LEAST
BUILDABLE PART OF THEIR LIFE,
FORCED THEM TO CHANGE TO
CONFIGURATION OF THEIR DRIVEWAY
OR PUT IN AN ENTIRELY NEW ONE
COMPETE WITH THE CRATE THAT'S
COMING UP FROM THE IN AND WELL
I KNOW IT'S THERE TO MEET THE
CHANGING MOTIVATION.
THE DIFFICULTY WITH CRAIG IS
THE REASON THAT VARIANCE
EXISTS, RIGHT?
IT IS THE CLASSIC EXAMPLE THE
PLANNERS GIVE WHEN ELEVATION
CHANGES PROHIBIT BUILDING IN AN
AREA AND I DON'T KNOW THAT IT
PROHIBITS BUT I DO BELIEVE THAT
IT MAKES IT MUCH MORE
CHALLENGING OUR ANCESTORS OFF.
>> SO UH, YOU KNOW, TO ME THE
CONDITIONS ARE PRESENT FOR
VARIOUS REQUEST.
IS IT THE MINIMUM I MEAN YEAH I
GUESS I GUESS IF YOU'RE ANTI
CAR THEN NO IT'S NOT THE
MINIMUM I DON'T PARTICULARLY
CARE.
I THINK THIS PORTION OF TOWN IN
OR PORTIONS OF TOWN WERE
DESIGNED AND SET UP TO FORCE
PEOPLE INTO CARS THAT ARE
SAYING TO CARS OR TWO CAR
GARAGE IT'S JUST TOO MUCH.
>> YOU KNOW, IT SEEMS
LIKE LIKE
A REASONABLE REQUEST TO WANT A
SECOND CAR TWO CAR GARAGE IN
THIS CLIMATE.
>> YEAH, AND WE'RE REALLY NOT
ENCROACHING THAT CLOSELY TO THE
ROAD.
>> MIKE.
>> THAT'S GOING TO GO FROM
BEING A PARK ZERO CARS TO TWO
INSTEAD OF ONE TOO.
RIGHT.
SO THAT'S WHERE I'M STUCK LIKE
IT'S I UNDERSTAND THE NEED TO
HAVE SOMETHING BUT GOING FROM
NOTHING TO TO JUST HUNG UP ON
THAT FIFTH LEVEL POINT HERE ALL
YOU'RE MAKING GOOD POINTS AND
ALL THE OTHER ONES.
>> BUT NUMBER FIVE, I'M JUST
HUNG UP.
I THINK I'M THINKING ABOUT THIS
AND LISTENING TO EVERYBODY'S
COMMENTS NOT AN EASY ONE BUT I
THINK I'M GOING TO VOTE NO AND
A REASON TO COMING BACK TO ONE
OF MY EARLIER COMMENTS IS THAT
IF YOU WERE ABLE TO SOLVE THE
PROBLEM WITHOUT GETTING A
SPECIAL DISPENSATION, YOU
SHOULD BE ABLE TO DO THAT.
WELL, HERE'S WHAT I'M SAYING.
WE THEY'RE HUNG UP ON HAVING A
GARAGE THAT ATTACHES TO THE
HOUSE BUT THERE ARE PLENTY
OF GARAGES IN THIS CITY THAT
DON'T ATTACH TO THEIR HOUSE.
IN FACT, THAT USED TO BE
ILLEGAL TO DO THAT YOU CAN PUT
A GARAGE ANYWHERE AND THERE'S
PLENTY OF ROOM TO PUT A THREE
CAR GARAGE.
THEY DON'T NEED SPECIAL
PERMISSION FROM US AND BECAUSE
THE SOLUTION ALREADY EXISTS THE
LIKE YOU KNOW, SCHOOLHOUSE HAVE
TREES.
>> THESE ARE THE BARS THAT YOU
KNOW YOU HAVE YOUR LITTLE MAGIC
SHOES YOU CAN DO YOURSELF.
>> THEY DON'T NEED OUR HELP AND
FOR THAT REASON I'M GOING TO
VOTE NO.
>> SO I JUST ASK A QUESTION
SORRY.
WE'RE IN DISCUSSION.
>> DAVE, DID YOU HAVE I JUST
WANT TO CONTINUE TO RESPOND TO
THE POINT WE OWE MONEY BACK I
GUESS NOT ON AND I DON'T HEAR
MY CLICKING PEN ANYMORE.
THE WE DON'T OWE ANYBODY A TWO
CAR GARAGE.
THERE ARE PEOPLE STATED PEOPLE
EXIST WITHOUT THEM.
THEY HAVE THE CAPABILITY TO
WORK WITH WHAT THEY HAVE.
THEY'VE GOT SPACE TO BUILD.
WE DON'T HAVE SIDEWALKS.
THEY'RE HOPEFUL.
HOPEFULLY I'M A SIDEWALK PERSON
.
I WANT TO SEE MORE SIDEWALKS IN
THESE NEIGHBORHOODS ESPECIALLY
NOT JUST IN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD
WHICH IS A MIDDLE CLASS
NEIGHBORHOOD BUT SOME OF THE
WEALTHIER NEIGHBORHOODS UP
THERE KNOW VINEWOOD AND OVERAGE
AND ALL THOSE STREETS UP IN ANN
HILLS.
I'D LIKE TO SEE SIDEWALKS IN
THERE AND WHEN I DRIVE IN THOSE
NEIGHBORHOODS THERE'S PEOPLE
WITH STROLLERS IN THE STREETS
WITH THEIR KIDS BECAUSE THERE'S
NOT A SIDEWALK AND I SEE THAT
IS A DETRIMENT.
I RIGHT OF WAYS ARE VERY
IMPORTANT AND THEY'RE IMPORTANT
TO PUT SIDEWALKS IN THERE AS
WELL AS THE ROADS THERE IS ROAD
PARKING.
I KNOW PEOPLE THAT LIVE IN THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD AND IT'S YOU DON'T
THIS VARIANCE DOES NOT MEET
MOST OF OUR STANDARDS THAT WE
HAVE TO JUDGE IT BY.
I CONCEDE THAT THERE IS A
TREMENDOUS ISSUE HERE AND BUT
THAT CAN BE BUILT AROUND THAT
COULD BE MADE YOU CAN MAKE USE
OF IT IN INTERESTING
ARCHITECTURAL WAYS.
I JUST DON'T SEE ANY OF THE
CLEAR REASONS THAT MY FELLOW
COMMISSIONERS AND SO I JUST
WANT TO REAFFIRM I'LL BE VOTING
NO.
SO IF I COULD SAY SOMETHING I
DON'T HAVE A VOTE AND I'M
NEUTRAL.
I USUALLY TRY TO STAY I REMAIN
NEUTRAL AS POSSIBLE AND I DON'T
SPEAK UP.
I JUST WANT TO CLARIFY A COUPLE
OF THINGS.
SO THERE IS A SIDEWALK ALONG
RIGHT UP DOWN HERE.
RIGHT.
AND THEN THERE ISN'T ONE ON
ROBIN ROAD.
CORRECT.
I'M NOT SURE WHAT ENGINEERING
OR THE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS
PROGRAM HAS AND THE FUTURE FOR
THE SIDEWALKS BUT THEY WOULD BE
BETWEEN THIS PROPERTY BOUNDARY
AND ROBIN SO THEY'D BE IN THIS
RIGHT AWAY AREA.
SO THAT'S ONE THING THAT I
THINK THAT'S BEEN MENTIONED AND
CONSIDERED I DON'T KNOW HOW
THAT WOULD PLAY INTO OR IMPACT
THE GARAGE PROJECT.
THE OTHER THINGS ARE THERE IS A
SIGNIFICANT TOPOGRAPHICAL
CHANGE AND I WILL SHOW YOU
WHERE MY CAR WAS THE VEHICLE
WAS PARKED WHEN I TOOK THESE
PHOTOS.
THAT'S MY TRUCK DOWN THERE.
IT'S PROBABLY TWENTY FEET DOWN
FROM WHERE I'M STANDING AND
THEN I WILL MENTION THE FACT
THAT SO YOU DO HAVE A A LOT
THAT HAS THREE FRONTAGES BUT
HOCKEY LANE IS A PRIVATE ROAD
AND SO THAT'S WHY THERE'S A 40
FOOT REAR SET BACK.
THERE COULD POSSIBLY BE A 30
FOOT SET BACK ON THAT SIDE BUT
PRIVATE ROAD SO YOU DO HAVE A
30 FOOT FRONT SET BACK ON A 30
FOOT FRONT STEP BACK AND RUN
RIGHT OUT AND THEN YOU HAVE
THIS 40 FOOT REAR STEP BACK AND
THEN YOU GET YOUR SIDE YARD SO
I JUST WANTED TO MAKE THOSE
COMMENTS IF THAT HELPS CLEAR
ANYTHING UP OR THERE I'M
HEARING GOOD POINTS ON BOTH
SIDES AND I JUST WANTED TO
CLEAR SOME THINGS UP IF THAT
WAS POSSIBLE.
>> CYDIA JUST DON'T QUITE POINT
TO ABOUT SIDEWALK JUST IN
THEORY IN THE FUTURE IF THERE
IS A SIDEWALK PUT IN THERE
HAVING THE GARAGE ENCROACHING
EVEN CLOSER TO IT DON'T MAKE A
MORE CHALLENGING BACKING OUT
OF THAT DRIVEWAY AND
POTENTIALLY POTENTIALLY IT
CONFLICTS FOR PEDESTRIANS AND
THINGS LIKE THAT.
AND THAT'S JUST I WANT TO THROW
THAT OUT THERE ME DID YOU HAVE
YES.
>> SO JUST TO CLARIFY, GRANTING
THIS VARIANCE DOES NOT POSE ANY
KIND OF FUTURE THREAT TO
BUILDING A SIDEWALK.
CORRECT.
OK, HOW FAR WOULD STILL BE FROM
ANY SIDEWALK?
IT WOULD STILL BE THIRTY FEET
FLAT RIGHT NOW IT'D BE
ESSENTIALLY WHAT THE DIFFERENCE
TO THE RIGHT WAY LINE IS A FOOT
OR LESS OK THAT'S THE TYPICAL
STANDARD A FOOT OFF THE BACK
OF THE RIGHT OF WAY.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
THE PROPERTY OWNERS GENERALLY
ARE ONE FOOT BEHIND THE
SIDEWALK BUT IT WOULD THE
SIDEWALK IF THERE WAS ONE IT
WOULD LIE IN BETWEEN THIS THE
RAVINE ROAD EDGE AND THE
PROPERTY LINE.
SO IT'D PROBABLY BE IN THE
THIRD TO YOU IF YOU ARE CORRECT
ABOUT APPROXIMATELY FOURTEEN OR
FIFTEEN FEET AWAY.
YEAH, BUT I DON'T REALLY THINK
THAT IS SOMETHING THAT'S BEING
TAKEN INTO CONSIDERATION
TONIGHT IS I MEAN IT'S IT
DOESN'T EXIST NOW AND IT MIGHT
NOT EXIST FOR WHO KNOWS HOW
MANY YEARS AND DRIVEWAYS
EXISTING NOW SO THEY HAVE TO
BACK OUT NOW ANYWAY SO
I THINK
WE'RE READY.
>> DAVE, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU ZIBA TWENTY THREE
DASH ZERO ZERO TWO NINE TEN
TWENTY ONE ROBIN ROAD IN
ACCORDANCE WITH ESTABLISHED
STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS HEREBY
GRANTS A SIX FOOT EIGHT INCH
VARIANCE FROM TABLE FIVE POINT
SEVENTEEN DASH ONE SINGLE
FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
DIMENSION'S TO CONSTRUCT A SIX
HUNDRED TWENTY SQUARE FOOT
ADDITION TO THE EXISTING
GARAGE.
THE NEW ADDITIONS WILL ENCROACH
AN ADDITIONAL TEN FEET FOUR
INCHES INTO THE FRONT SET BACK
FROM ITS CURRENT LOCATION.
THE ADDITION IS TO BE BUILT FOR
THE SUBMITTED PLANS.
THANK YOU DAVE.
HAVE A MOTION TO SUPPORT.
THANK YOU GRACE.
CAN CAN I ASK A QUESTION BEFORE
WE DO THIS?
SURE.
AND IT'S REALLY FOR THAT MATTER
FOR YOU GUYS AND I MADE MY
POINT SO NOW I'M IF IF THE
SINGLE CAR GARAGE THAT'S LESS
OF A REQUEST OR NO PRICE AT ALL
VERSUS WHAT IF THAT'S UNDER
CONSIDERATION AND YOU DON'T
WANT TO REAPPLY AND WE'VE
ALREADY MADE OUR MOTION BUT
WITH POSSIBILITY WOULD THERE BE
A POSSIBILITY OF TABLING IT SO
THAT THEY COULD REDRAW PLANS AT
A REDUCED RATE TO ALLEVIATE
SOME OF THE CONCERNS WITHOUT
HAVING TO PAY TO APPLY AGAIN,
IS THAT DOABLE?
I DON'T EVEN KNOW IF IT'S
SOMETHING YOU WANT BUT GIVEN
THAT IT'S CLEARLY A REASON SOME
PEOPLE ARE VOTING, YOU KNOW, I
DON'T KNOW YOU'D HAVE TO
PRESENT A MOTION TO DO A TABLE
AND THEN THEY'D HAVE TO VOTE ON
WHETHER THE BOARD WANTS TO
TABLE IT OR NOT.
>> ANYONE KNOW IF THAT'S
SOMETHING YOU WANT BUT
SHOULDN'T BE ASKING THEM?
YEAH, BECAUSE THEY'RE NOT GOING
TO REDRAW PLANS THEN THERE'S NO
POINT IN MAKING THE MOTION
RIGHT.
CAN I ASK YOU A QUICK QUESTION?
I KNOW IT'S IT'S SORRY I WAS
THROWN OFF.
IT WAS JUST GIVEN THAT THAT WAS
SEEMINGLY PART OF THE PROBLEM
IT SEEMED LIKE A GOOD IDEA THAT
JOHN DOESN'T LIKE.
I KNOW AND MY QUESTION WOULD BE
ABOUT THIS.
IT WOULD BE ABOUT A DIFFERENT
DESIGN WHETHER OR NOT HE WOULD
EITHER REQUIRE A VARIANCE I
DON'T THAT YES.
QUICKLY.
SO YOU COME UP TO THE
MICROPHONE, FACE IT.
COME ON.
WE COME UP TO THE MICROPHONE.
I'M SORRY IF IF WE WERE TO
MAINTAIN OR UM LET'S SAY GET
EVEN FURTHER FROM THE SET BACK
IN AN ADDITION ON THIS SIDE
WHILE IT WOULD STILL BE
ENCROACHING THE SETBACK, DOES
THE EXISTING HOUSE ACTUALLY
CREATE THE SETBACK OR IS IT THE
30 FOOT SO WE NEED A VARIANCE
IF WE STEPPED BACK SO YOU CAN
WORK WITH STAFF IF YOU'RE NOT
ENCROACHING FURTHER TYPICALLY
BECAUSE YOUR HOUSE IS ALREADY
ENCROACHING, YOUR GRADUATES
ALREADY ENCROACHING, IT WOULD
STILL BE CONSIDERED
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE SO YOU
WOULD STILL NEED PERMISSION TO
ALTER NONCONFORMING EMISSION
STANDARDS FOR THAT ARE SIMPLER
THAN THE STANDARDS FOR A
VARIANCE.
BUT JOHN CAN GIVE YOU DIRECTION
ON THAT.
OK, ALL RIGHT.
>> WE HAVE A MOTION FROM DAVE.
WE HAVE SUPPORT FROM GRACE
SADARA >> NOW MIKE NOW DAVE
DAVE ALREADY KNOW CHRISTINA NO
TODD NO CHRIS SUPPORT CHRIS YES
.
>> I ALSO VOTE NO DERMO
NO.
>> THE REQUEST IS DENIED.
MOVING ON TO PETITION ZIBA
TWENTY THREE DASH ZERO ZERO
THREE ZERO FOUR ONE THREE S
DIVISION STREET METRO PROPERTY
SERVICES IS REQUESTING RELIEF
FROM SECTION FIVE POINT THIRTY
TWO POINT TWO NOT CONFORMING
STRUCTURE IN ORDER TO CONSTRUCT
A SIXTEEN FOOT FOUR SIX FOOT
FOUR INCH BY FOUR FOOT ADDITION
TO ALLOW FOR ADDITIONAL AREA
FOR THE BEDROOMS ON THE FIRST,
SECOND AND THIRD FLOORS.
THE APPLICANTS ARE ALSO
REQUESTING THAT DORMERS THE
THIRD FLOOR WHICH WILL ALLOW
FOR A NEW BEDROOM TO UNIT FOR
THE ADDITIONS WILL NOT ENCROACH
FURTHER INTO THE SIDE OR REAR
SUFFOLK AREAS.
THE PROPERTY IS ON OUR FORESE
MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING
DISTRICT.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
ON THE EAST SIDE OF S DIVISION
STREET DUE SOUTH EAST WILLIAM
STREET.
THE STRUCTURE IS THE NORTHERN
PROPERTY FROM THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN'S INSTITUTE
OF SOCIAL RESEARCH.
THE RESIDENCE WAS CONSTRUCTED
IN NINETEEN EIGHTY ONE AND IS
APPROXIMATELY TWO THOUSAND NINE
HUNDRED FIFTY SQUARE FEET IN
SIZE.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY RECEIVED
APPROVAL FOR ALTERATION TO A
NON CONFORMING STRUCTURE ON MAY
25TH TWENTY TWENTY TWO THE
APPROVED ALSBURY ALTERATION
ALLOWED FOR THE CREATION
OF UNIT ONE IN THE BASEMENT
CONTAINING FIVE BEDROOMS AND
THREE BATHROOMS.
UNIT TWO IS TO BE LOCATED ON
THE FIRST FLOOR AS A SIX
BEDROOM THREE BATHROOM UNIT
UNIT THREE WILL BE ON THE
SECOND FLOOR AND CONSISTS
OF SIX BEDROOMS AND THREE
BATHROOMS AS WELL.
THE THIRD STORY HOUSE UNIT FOUR
WITH THREE BEDROOMS AND TWO
BATHROOMS.
THE APPROVED RENOVATIONS WERE
REQUIRED TO TAKE PLACE WITHIN
THE CURRENT ENVELOPE OF THE
HOME AND THERE WILL BE NO
CHANGES TO THE LENGTH, WIDTH OR
HEIGHT OF THE BUILDING.
ENERGY EFFICIENCY WILL BE
UPGRADED SIGNIFICANTLY WITH
SPRAY FOAM INSULATION AND HIGH
EFFICIENCY APPLIANCES WHILE
BRINGING THE BUILDING UP TO ALL
MODERN BUILDING CODES.
THE NEW REQUEST IS TO ALLOW FOR
A BUMP OUT IN THE SOUTHWEST
CORNER OF THE HOME AND DORMER
ADDITIONS TO THE THIRD FLOOR TO
ALLOW FOR AN ADDITIONAL BEDROOM
UNIT FOR YOU LOOK AT THE
MONITOR THE FIRST SLIDE YOU SEE
THE ZONING MAP AND YOU SEE THE
HIGHLIGHTED PARCEL IN BLUE AT
THE CENTER OF THE SCREEN.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE LOCATION
MAP SHOWING THE SURROUNDING
PROPERTIES AND EXISTING
CONDITIONS AND THE THIRD SLIDE
IS THE ZOOMED IN AERIAL OF THE
EXISTING SUBJECT PROPERTY.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION.
>> THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE FLOOR
PLAN OF THE EXISTING HOME SITE
PLAN AND THIS IS WHERE THE BUMP
OUT AND THE SOUTHWEST CORNER IS
TO BE AND IT'S THE SIX FOOT
FOUR SIXTEEN FOOT BY FOUR FOOT
WIDE BUMP OUT TO ALLOW FOR
ADDITIONAL ROOM IN THE BEDROOMS
OF UNITS ONE, TWO AND THREE.
AND AS YOU CAN SEE IT GOES
ALONG THE EXACT SAME PLAIN AS
THE EXISTING HOME SO IT WON'T
INCUR ENCROACH FURTHER.
THAT'S NOT A VARIANCE REQUEST.
>> IT'S AN ALTERATION REQUEST.
NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE FLOOR PLAN
FOR THE NEW FIRST FLOOR AND YOU
SEE THAT THAT NEW ADDITION AND
THAT SOUTHWEST CORNER RIGHT
THERE.
NEXT SLIDE IS THE NEW SECOND
FLOOR.
I KNOW YOU'VE SEEN ALL THESE I
KNOW IF YOU REMEMBER IT FROM A
YEAR AND A HALF AGO BUT THE
NEXT SLIDE IS THE NEW THIRD
FLOOR AND THIS IS THE APPROVAL
FROM THE LAST TIME TO ALLOW
THIS MOVE BASEMENT UNIT.
THESE ARE THE ELEVATIONS THAT
WERE SUBMITTED THE NEW WEST AND
EAST ELEVATION.
YOU SEE THE NEW DORMERS BEING
PROPOSED TO ALLOW FOR THAT
ADDITIONAL BEDROOM ON THE THIRD
FLOOR FOR UNIT FOUR AND THE
HEIGHT INCREASE AND THAT'S FROM
THE S ELEVATION AND THE NEXT
SLIDE IS FROM THE NORTH
ELEVATION AND THE NEW DORMERS
BEING PROPOSED AND THAT'S WHERE
THE NEW ADDITIONS WILL BE TO ON
THE SOUTH ELEVATION THE BUMP
OUT THESE ARE THE EXISTING
ELEVATION AND THESE ARE THE
PHOTOS I TOOK AT MY INSPECTION
AND THE HOME OF THE CURRENT
STATE OF CONSTRUCTION
IS I
BELIEVE THAT'S WHERE THE BUMP
UP IS GOING TO BE.
MY RIGHT ROB.
YEP.
THIS IS WHERE THAT SOUTHWELL
CORNER AND IT'S GOING TO FILL
IN THIS BUMP OUT RIGHT THERE.
THIS IS THE REAR OF THE HOME
AND THAT CONCLUDES OUR
PRESENTATION AND I'LL TAKE ANY
QUESTIONS YOU HAVE AT THIS TIME
.
>> THANKS, JOHN.
ANY QUESTIONS LOOKING AT THIS
PICTURE?
IS THIS WHERE THE BUMBLEBEE?
YES.
IN THAT AREA WHERE THAT BLUE
DOOR IS IT ALL CORRECT?
IT'S FOUR FEET WIDE BY SIX FEET
LONG.
BUT AS YOU SEE IT ALONG THE
SAME PLAIN AS THE HOUSE
EXISTING SO IT WON'T BE
REQUIRING A VARIANCE.
IT WON'T BE ENCROACHING FURTHER
TO THAT SOUTH PROPERTY LINE OR
THE SIDE SET BACK.
>> OK, THANK YOU.
YES SIR.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS?
ALL RIGHT.
>> IF THE PETITIONER WOULD LIKE
TO COME FORWARD PLEASE SIGN IN
STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE RECORD
YOU'LL HAVE FIVE MINUTES.
I'M ROB FOWLER AND THE BUILDER
ON THE PROPERTY AND I AM
VESSELS THAT MY FAMILY OWNS
ABOUT SO JUST THEY ARE PRETTY
MUCH MENTIONED EVERYTHING ABOUT
IT RIGHT NOW.
IT'S CURRENTLY UNDER
CONSTRUCTION.
WE JUST FINISHED ALL OF THE
INTERIOR DEMO OF IT.
SO IT'S YOU KNOW, IT'S DOWN TO
THE STUDS RIGHT NOW.
THEY DUG OUT THE BASEMENT AND
THEN ONCE ONCE WE KIND
OF COMPLETED THIS PART OF THE
PROCESS WE REALIZED THAT WE YOU
KNOW, WE CAN MAKE SOME
IMPROVEMENTS TO IT NOT ONLY FOR
THE SAKE OF THE TENANTS BUT YOU
KNOW, JUST JUST SO IT'S IT'S
MUCH MORE LIVABLE SITUATION IN
THE FUTURE AND WE CAN ADD A
LITTLE BIT MORE DENSITY FOR AN
EXTRA BEDROOM ON THE TOP FLOOR.
SO WE WENT THROUGH AND THIS
WILL ALLOW US TO ADD YOU KNOW,
WE HAD WE HAD TO DO FIRE
SUPPRESSION IN THE BASEMENT
WHICH INVOLVES A BIG CLOSET
THAT TOOK OUT A LOT OF SPACE
AND ONE OF THE BEDROOMS.
SO THIS WILL GIVE US EXTRA
SQUARE FEET THAT'S DISTRIBUTED
THROUGHOUT ALL OF THE BEDROOMS
AND YOU KNOW, IT JUST IT CLEANS
EVERYTHING UP AND MAKES IT SO
MUCH MORE USER FRIENDLY AND
LIKE I SAID, WE CAN PUT ONE
MORE BEDROOM ON THE TOP FLOOR
AS WELL.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER.
>> ARE YOU MENTIONED FIRE
SUPPRESSION?
SO YOU'VE PUT IN A WHOLE NEW
LIKE SPRINKLER SYSTEM THAT WAS
ONE OF THE REQUIREMENTS BECAUSE
IT'S FOUR UNITS IT HAS TO BE
FIRE SUPPRESS WHICH IS GREAT.
YOU KNOW, IN TERMS OF LIFE
SAFETY IT'S AMAZING WHAT WHAT
ONE OF THE REQUIREMENTS OF THAT
IS WE HAVE TO DIG FROM THE
STREET IN SIDE OF THE HOUSE AND
THEN WHEN IT COMES IN THROUGH
THE FOUNDATION YOU HAVE TO HAVE
THIS CLOSET WITH A BIG STACK
AND ALL THESE VALVES AND
SUPPRESSION.
SO YOU HAVE TO KIND OF BUILD
OUT SOMETHING FOR THAT.
I'VE GOT A FIRE SUPPRESSION SET
UP IN AND AROUND YOU, OK?
YEAH SO SO THAT HEATS UP.
>> I DIDN'T REALIZE THAT THEY
WERE REQUIRING THAT IS A NEW
THING.
IT'S APPARENTLY NEW ISN'T IT
WHEN YOU HAVE FOUR UNITS
BECAUSE IT'S BECAUSE IT'S
COMMERCIAL.
GOT YOU THE QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
IF THERE'S ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION PLEASE COME
FORWARD NOW IF THERE'S ANYONE
WHO'S ACCESSING THE MEETING
REMOTELY, PLEASE PRESS STAR
NINE IF YOU'RE ACCESSING BY
PHONE OR USE THE RACE FEATURE
IF YOU'RE ACCESSING THROUGH THE
WEB LINK I'M NOT SEEING ANY
CALLERS.
>> THANKS WITH THE PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED AND WE ARE IN
DISCUSSION
.
DAVE, THE STANDARDS FOR
APPROVING AN ALTERATION TO A
NONCONFORMIST STRUCTURE ARE NOT
AS STRINGENT IS WHAT WE FACED
ON THE PREVIOUS PETITION.
THIS IS PART OF THE CITY THAT
WE LOOK TO FOR INCREASED
DENSITY AND A MODEST SIZE
OF THIS HOUSE AND THE FULL
SCALE IMPROVEMENTS THAT ARE
DOING ALL WE IN THE FAVOR
OF THE PETITIONER AND FOR ME
EASILY SUPPORT THIS.
>> IT'S A MINIMAL CHANGE TO THE
STRUCTURE AND THE STANDARDS ARE
NOT VERY STRINGENT TO APPROVE
IT.
ANY OF THE COMMENTS I THINK
WE'RE READY FOR EMOTION.
>> OK, THANK YOU DAVE ZIBA
TWENTY THREE ARE ZERO ZERO
THREE ZERO FOR THIRTEEN SOUTH
DIVISION STREET ALTERATION TO A
NON CONFORMING STRUCTURE.
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
HEREBY GRANTS RELIEF FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT THIRTY TWO
POINT TO ALTERATION TO A NON
CONFORMING STRUCTURE TO ALLOW A
SIXTEEN FOOT BY FOUR FOOT
ADDITION TO THE FIRST, SECOND
AND THIRD FLOORS AND TO ALLOW A
NEW DORMER TO THE THIRD FLOOR.
THE ALTERATIONS WILL ALLOW FOR
ADDITIONAL BEDROOM AREA ON EACH
FLOOR AND A NEW BEDROOM TO UNIT
FOR THE ADDITIONS WILL NOT
ENCROACH FURTHER INTO THE SIDE
OF REAR SETBACK AREAS.
>> THE ALTERATIONS ARE TO BE
BUILT PER THE SUBMITTED PLANS
MOTION TO HAVE SUPPORT FOR.
THANK YOU CHRIS CHRISTINA.
YES TODD YES CHRIS YES GRACE
YES.
I ALSO VOTE YES.
YES SO DEAR YES MIKE YES.
DAVE DAVE ALREADY YES.
THE REQUEST IS GRANTED MOVING
ON TO PETITION ZIBA TWENTY
THREE DASH ZERO ZERO THREE ONE
FIVE THREE SIX WALNUT ST.
FIVE
THIRTY SIX WALNUT STREET DAVID
LEWIS REPRESENTING THE PROPERTY
OWNER IS REQUESTING A ONE
HUNDRED AND TWENTY FIVE SQUARE
FOOT FOR TEN PERCENT VARIANCE
FROM SECTION FIVE POINT SIXTEEN
POINT SIX
SUBSECTION D
ACCESSORY USERS AND STRUCTURES
TO CONSTRUCT A FIVE HUNDRED
NINETY NINE SQUARE FOOT
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT WITH A
PORTION OUTSIDE OF THE REAR SET
BACK AREA.
THE BACK AREA ALLOWS FOR A FOUR
HUNDRED AND TWENTY SQUARE FOOT
STRUCTURE AND THE APPLICANTS
ARE SEEKING TO BUILD A FIVE
HUNDRED FORTY FIVE SQUARE F
STRUCTURE IN THE REAR STEP BACK
AREA THE PROPOSED EIGHTY YOU
WILL MEET THE SET BACKS AND
HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
THE PROPERTY IS OWNED OR
FORESEE MULTIPLE FAMILY
DWELLING DISTRICT.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
ON THE WEST SIDE OF THE WALNUT
OF WALNUT STREET WITH THE
GETTYS AVENUE TO THE NORTH AND
SOUTH.
UNIVERSITE AVENUE TO THE SOUTH.
THE HOMELESS BOTH IN NINETEEN
TEN AND IS APPROXIMATELY ONE
THOUSAND SEVEN HUNDRED FORTY
EIGHT SQUARE FEET IN SIZE.
THE HOME IS CURRENTLY CERTIFIED
AS A SINGLE FAMILY FOUR BEDROOM
HOME WITH A MAXIMUM OF SIX
OCCUPANTS THE PROPOSED EIGHTY
YOU WILL CONTAIN TWO BEDROOMS,
A BATHROOM, A KITCHEN AND A
LIVING ROOM.
THE LIVING AREA WILL BE LOCATED
OVER A THREE CAR GARAGE THE TWO
BEDROOMS OF THE EIGHTY TWO AND
FOUR BEDROOMS THE MAIN
RESIDENCE WILL ALLOW FOR SIX
BEDROOMS FOR A MAXIMUM OF SIX
OCCUPANTS FOR THE PROPERTY YOUR
TURN YOUR ATTENTION TO THE
MONITORS YOU SEE THE FIRST
SLIDE IS THE ZONING MAP AND YOU
SEE THE HIGHLIGHTED CASTLE IN
THE CENTER AND BLUE AND THE
NEXT SLIDE IS THE LOCATION MAP
SHOWING THE SURROUNDING
CONDITIONS AND EXISTING
NEIGHBORHOODS AND THE NEXT
SLIDE SHOWS THE ZOOMED IN
AERIAL PHOTO OF THE EXISTING
SUBJECT PROPERTY.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION AND THE NEXT SLIDE
IS THE PROPOSED EIGHTY YOU AND
A SITE PLAN.
YOU SEE THE PROPOSAL TO YOU
OVER A ONE ONE STORY OVER
PARKING TWO BEDROOMS, ONE BATH
FIVE HUNDRED NINETY NINE SQUARE
FEET AND IT'S IN GRAY.
THE EXISTING DETACHED GARAGE IS
SHOWN HERE THAT FOOTPRINT AND
THAT IS TO BE DEMOLISHED AND
YOU SEE THE 30 FOOT MINIMUM
REAR YARD STEP AND A PORTION
OF THAT WILL BE OUTSIDE OF THE
SET BACK RIGHT HERE AND EIGHTY
YOU IN THE REAR GUARD IS FIVE
HUNDRED FORTY FIVE SQUARE FEET
LIKE I SAID, WHICH IS AN
ADDITIONAL THIRTY TEN PERCENT
COVERAGE IN THE RECEPTION AREA
.
NEXT SLIDE IS THE PROPOSED
EIGHTY YOU YOU SEE THE LAYOUT
THE PLAN PROPOSED FLOOR PLAN,
THE TWO BEDROOMS BATHROOM AND A
COMMON ROOM LIVING AREA.
>> THIS IS THE NORTH ELEVATION
THAT'S BEING PROPOSED AND THE
EAST ELEVATION, THE SOUTH
ELEVATION AND THE WEST
ELEVATION THESE ARE THE PHOTOS
THAT I TOOK OUT OF MY
INSPECTION OF THE PROPERTY IS
THE FRONT OF THE HOUSE FROM
WALL STREET.
THIS IS GOING DOWN THE DRIVEWAY
.
>> YOU SEE THE EXISTING GARAGE
THAT'S TO BE DEMOLISHED.
YOU SEE THE EXISTING GARAGE IN
ITS LOCATION TO THE NEIGHBORING
FENCE AND THE BUILDING THE
FENCE AND THE PROPERTY STAKE
AND THE DISTANCE TO THE LINE
THAT'S THE NEXT PHOTO IS THE
BACK THE REAR OF THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY AND THAT IS ALL THE
PHOTOS THAT I HAVE AND THAT'S
THE END OF MY PRESENTATION.
>> I'LL TAKE ANY QUESTIONS THAT
YOU HAVE AT THIS TIME.
>> THANKS, JOHN.
QUESTIONS AND JOHN, THIS IS A
STUDENT A STUDENT PANEL I
SUPPOSE IT'S A RENTAL.
I BELIEVE IT'S MOSTLY STUDENTS
BUT IT IS A RENTAL.
>> SO MY SECOND AND LAST
QUESTION TODAY TO YOU BECAUSE
THE NEW STRUCTURE IS NOT TIED
TO THE OLD ONE RIGHT IS A
SEPARATE STRUCTURE.
THAT'S CORRECT.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR JOHN?
RIGHT.
IF THE APPLICANT IS HERE, IF
YOU CAN PLEASE COME FORWARD,
STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE RECORD
SIGN IN FIVE MINUTES.
>> MY NAME IS DAVID.
>> HIS NAME IS DAVID LEWIS.
I'M THE ARCHITECT FOR THE
PROPERTY.
JUST WANTED TO POINT OUT A
COUPLE ITEMS.
I THINK JOHN DID A PRETTY
THOROUGH PRESENTATION.
JUST WANTED TO MENTION THAT
THIS LOT IS A LITTLE BIT
SMALLER THAN THAN MOST OF THE
SURROUNDING LOTS AND AND THE
EXISTING HOUSE IS A BIT PUSHED
FURTHER BACK THAN MOST.
THE NEIGHBORING HOUSES ARE THE
THE REAR YARD WE HAD TO WORK
WITH FOR AIDOO IS DEFINITELY
SMALLER THAN THAN OTHER LOTS IN
THE IMMEDIATE NEIGHBORHOOD AND
ALL THIS VARIANCE IS BASICALLY
THIS 10 PERCENT DIFFERENCE
OF THE THE COVERAGE THE REAR,
THE REAR YARD.
THE OTHER THING I WANT
MENTIONED, EVEN THOUGH THE
ZONING CODE ADDRESSES THE
REQUIRED YARD BUT IF YOU IF YOU
INCLUDE THE ACTUAL YOUR YARD
THIS EIGHTY YOU IS OCCUPYING
ONLY THIRTY FIVE PERCENT OF THE
OF THE THE ACTUAL YARD WHICH IS
WHICH IN MY MIND AND SPIRIT
COMPLIES WITH THE ZONING
CODE OF THE THIRTY FIVE PERCENT
OF THE REQUIRED YARD.
>> UM THE OTHER THING THAT WAS
IMPORTANT FOR THE PROPERTY
OWNER WAS HAVING THE PARKING
AVAILABLE SO I WAS KIND OF THE
WHOLE CONCEPT OF HAVING THIS
EIGHTY RAISED UP SO THE TENANTS
CAN HAVE A PLACE TO PARK AND
COMPARED TO YOU KNOW, DOING A
SIMPLE TWO BEDROOM ADDITION ON
THE BACK OF THE HOUSE WOULD YOU
KNOW THERE'S NOT A WHOLE LOT
OF SPACE IN THE HOUSE IN THE
REGARDS THAT BECKLIN AND IT
WOULD DEFINITELY IMPACT SOME
OF THE POTENTIAL PARKING SPACE
MANEUVERABILITY SO THAT THE
PROPERTY OWNER YOU KNOW, HE
FEELS LIKE THIS IS THE BEST WAY
TO PROVIDE, YOU KNOW, TWO
QUALITY BEDROOMS TO CONTRIBUTE
TO THE HOUSING STOCK OF ANN
ARBOR.
>> ANY QUESTIONS FOR ME HERE?
THANK YOU.
ANY QUESTIONS, DAVE?
IT LOOKS LIKE ADJACENT PROPERTY
IS THAT A DRIVEWAY A SHARED
DRIVEWAY WITH EASEMENTS WHERE
YOU HAVE A SHARED EASEMENT OVER
THERE IS PROPERTY OR IS A
SHARED DRIVEWAY.
I DON'T KNOW IF THERE'S A LEGAL
EASEMENT IN PLACE OR NOT.
>> OK, BUT BOTH THE BOTH
OF THOSE PROPERTIES USE THAT
DRIVEWAY.
YEAH, FIVE FIVE THIRTY TO THE
PROPERTY TO THE NORTH.
I'M LOOKING AT THE THE
PHOTOGRAPH FROM ABOVE.
>> YEAH THEY SHARE YEAH THAT
SHARES ONE DRIVEWAY AND THE
RESIDENT OR THE TENANTS OF THAT
PROPERTY PARK TO THE RIGHT AND
THE TENANTS OF THIS PROPERTY
PARK AND SO THE EXISTING GARAGE
IS A TWO TWO CAR GARAGE.
IT'S IT'S WOULD BE A VERY VERY
TIGHT TWO CAR GARAGE AND YOU'VE
GOT IT LOOKS LIKE SPACE FOR ONE
OR TWO SPACES BETWEEN THE HOUSE
AND THE EXISTING GARAGE.
>> YEAH, IT'S THE OWNER TOLD ME
THAT TYPICALLY THEY'RE THEY'RE
GETTING TWO CARS.
>> I DON'T THINK ANY I DON'T
THINK THEY EVER PARKED TWO CARS
IN THE GARAGE BECAUSE IS PRETTY
SMALL.
SO I THINK THEY TYPICALLY HAVE
ONE CAR OUTSIDE THE GARAGE, ONE
CAR IN THE GARAGE.
>> SO REALLY THIS PLAN IS
INCREASING THE AMOUNT PARKING.
YES.
THAT'S AVAILABLE AND ACCESSIBLE
THROUGH YOUR TENANTS TO THE
OWNERS TENANTS.
YES.
WELL THAT CERTAINLY IT'S
POSITIVE.
ANY OF THE QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER?
>> RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
IF THERE'S ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION, PLEASE COME
FORWARD NOW IF THERE'S ANYONE
ACCESSING A MEETING REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE IF
ACCESSING BY PHONE OR USE THE
AND FEATURE OF ACCESSING
THROUGH THE WEB LINK THERE ARE
NO CALLERS.
>> THANK YOU JOHN.
WITHOUT THE PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED AND WE'RE IN DISCUSSION
GRACE.
>> I'M TALKING UM I'M KIND
OF ON THE FENCE ABOUT THIS.
I'M NOT REALLY SURE IF I
UNDERSTAND WHAT THE PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTY IS HERE.
>> I DON'T FEEL LIKE THAT HAS
NECESSARILY BEEN SATISFIED
OTHER THAN YOU KNOW WHAT THE
DESIRE TO CREATE THE ADDITIONAL
UNITS I'M NOT I COULD BE
CONVINCED OTHERWISE BUT I'M NOT
FULLY SURE ON THAT.
CHRIS, DID YOU HAVE I COME IN?
NO
, TODD UH, DO THINGS I WAS
NICE TO SEE THIS PROPERTY.
I LIVED HERE IN THE SUMMER
OF 1979.
I NOTICED THE PORCH IS STILL IN
THE FRONT.
IT WAS A NICE PLACE TO GET
COOKED BY THE SUN.
LISTEN TO DETROIT TIGER GAMES.
THAT IS NOTHING TO DO WITH IT.
I'M GOING TO VOTE BUT THERE'S A
NICE MEMORY I THINK THAT TRY TO
ANSWER GRACE'S QUESTION.
I THINK ATTITUDES ARE SOMETHING
THE CITY DESIRES.
SO IN MY MIND IT'S OKAY TO, YOU
KNOW, TRY TO SQUEEZE THIS INTO
SOME OF THE CRITERIA BECAUSE
EIGHTY YEARS OR SOMETHING THE
CITY WANTS TO DO AND THIS IS A
STUDENT AREA SO IT'S VERY CLOSE
TO CAMPUS, VERY CLOSE TO THE
GIGANTIC TOWERS AND SOUTH
UNIVERSITY AND A BUNCH
OF PLACES DENHA I THINK I'M
PROBABLY ON A VOTE FOR THIS.
IT IS ONLY A TEN PERCENT
VARIANCE.
I TEND TO LOOK AT WHAT PERCENT
OF THE VARIANCE THERE CHEWING
UP AND IT GETS TO BE MORE THAN
50 PERCENT.
IT'S LIKE WELL YOU REALLY NEED
TO DO THAT FOR TEN PERCENT IS
NO PRETTY CLOSE TO ONLY A
LITTLE BIT MORE AND I'M SORT
OF COMFORTABLE WITH
SORRY I
HAVE A QUESTION FOR STAFF I
THINK IS THERE A LIMIT TO THE
NUMBER OF UNRELATED PEOPLE THAT
CAN LIVE IN US?
SO IS THAT WHY THEY'VE
HIGHLIGHTED THE FACT THAT
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO BE ADDING
TENANTS THEY'LL JUST HAVE MORE
SPACE?
>> IT'S KIND OF SO IT'S A
SINGLE FAMILY HOME IN OUR
FORESE DISTRICT.
THERE'S A LOT OF MASSIMO'S SIX
OCCUPANTS.
>> OK, GOT IT.
I'VE RAILED ABOUT THE IN THE
PAST ABOUT THE PLANNING
DEPARTMENT HELPING
TO GIVE OUR
BOARD SOME GUIDANCE BY GIVING
US SOME NEW OR ALLOWING US TO
PUT TOGETHER DIFFERENT
STANDARDS BECAUSE WHEN WE APPLY
THE STANDARDS FOR MOST OF THE
VARIANCES THAT WE APPLY THE
FIVE STRINGENT STANDARDS WE
HAVE TO MEET THAT DOESN'T WORK
FOR SIGN ORDINANCES.
IT DOESN'T WORK FOR FANCYPANTS
IS AND IT DOESN'T WORK FOR ME
TO USE EITHER AND GIVEN THAT
THE CITY IS REALLY TRYING TO
ENCOURAGE YOU TO USE SEX
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS, I
THINK AS A BOARD AND AS A
PLANNING DEPARTMENT WE SHOULD
GET SOME GUIDANCE TO HELP US
WITH THE STANDARDS TO JUDGE
THESE BY GIVEN THAT I'M LOOKING
AT THE FIVE STANDARDS THAT WE
HAVE AND WE DO IF WE TALK ABOUT
A PRACTICAL DIFFICULTY, THE
PRACTICAL DIFFICULTY IS HOW DO
WE DO THESE 80 ISSUES THAT THE
CITY WANTS?
>> AND THEN I LOOK AT THE
VARIANCE SHALL BE A MINIMUM
VARIANCE THAT WILL MAKE
POSSIBLE A REASONABLE USE IN
TERMS OF THE EIGHT TO 10
PERCENT VARIANCE THAT IS A
MINIMAL REQUEST.
>> SO I SEE THOSE TWO POINTS IN
CONJUNCTION AND THEN I LOOK AT
OUR THIRD STANDARD ALLOWING THE
VARIANCE WILL RESULT IN
SUBSTANTIAL JUSTICE BEING DONE
CONSIDERING THE PUBLIC BENEFITS
OF THE ZONING ORDINANCE AND THE
PUBLIC BENEFITS AS LAID OUT BY
OUR CITY COUNCIL IS TO ADD TO
USE AND ADD MORE MORE UNITS
WHERE PEOPLE CAN LIVE TO ADD
DENSITY FOR RESIDENTS TO LIVE
IN THIS DOWNTOWN ESPECIALLY IN
THIS DOWNTOWN AREA NEAR
DOWNTOWN AREA.
I'M GOING TO BE VOTING FOR THIS
.
>> IT'S YOU KNOW, PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTY MAYBE BUT IT DOES
MEET IN MY OPINION IT MEETS
MOST OF THE STANDARDS IF NOT
ALL OF THEM THAT WE HAVE TO TO
JUDGE THIS BY.
>> SO I WILL BE VOTING IN FAVOR
OF IT BECAUSE I KNOW YOU HAD
YEAH.
>> WELL, I'M NOT GOING TO GO
OUT LIKE LAST TIME SO I'LL LET
YOU GUYS GO.
BUT THIS REQUEST FAILS TO MEET
EVEN A SINGLE ONE OF OUR
STANDARDS LIKE OH MY GOD, I'M
NOT GOING TO GO LONG THING BUT
LIKE YOU KNOW IT COULD JUST BE
SLIGHTLY SMALLER.
RIGHT.
SO IT'S NOT THE MINIMUM.
SO SO IT HAS FAILED TO MEET
NUMBER FIVE.
WHAT'S THE PRACTICAL DIFFICULTY
?
NOTHING.
THEY WANT TO TAKE UP MORE
OF THE RECORD SET BACK THAN
THEY'RE ALLOWED TO WRITE.
THERE'S NO ACTUAL IMPEDIMENT TO
BUILDING A SLIGHTLY SMALLER
STRUCTURE AND A SLIGHTLY
SMALLER STRUCTURE IS ABLE TO BE
BUILT AND MEAN OUR RULES AND
THERE'S NO PHYSICAL, YOU KNOW,
HINDRANCE TO THAT THAN THAN
THERE IS NO PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTY AND AGAIN OBJECTIVE
I I JUST DON'T FOLLOW THE LINE
OF THINKING WHERE THE LAST LINE
WHICH CLEARLY HAD IMPEDIMENTS
TO BUILDING THINGS WAS THAT
GRANTED VARIANCE BUT THIS WHAT
DOES IT JUST DOESN'T.
RIGHT AND I WANT MORE HOUSING.
I DESPERATELY WANT MORE HOUSING
BUT I DON'T THINK IT'S OUR
RESPONSIBILITY TO WAIVE CERTAIN
ONES OF OUR STANDARDS JUST JUST
TO FIT MORE TO USE AND THAT'S
REALLY IT.
TODD.
WELL, CHRIS, I REALLY ENJOYED
THE DEBATING TONIGHT.
IT'S GOOD.
BUT YOU BRING UP REALLY AN
EXCELLENT POINT WHICH THESE
THINGS ARE DIFFICULT AND FOR ME
MY FAVORITE CRITERIA WHICH NO
ONE EVER REALLY NEEDS IS IS
THIS THE MINIMUM VARIANCE YOU
CAN USE THE PROPERTY BECAUSE
EVERYBODY THAT COMES BEFORE THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS IS
ALREADY LIVING IN THE STRUCTURE
.
THEY'RE HEATING THEMSELVES.
THEY'RE GOING TO SLEEP.
THEY'RE NOT GETTING RAINED ON
AND THEY'RE USING IT.
SO NO NO REQUEST WOULD EVER
MEET NUMBER FIVE BUT WE HAVE TO
PUSH IT A LITTLE BIT AND THE
QUESTION IS TO WHAT EXTENT DO
YOU WISH SOMETHING TO SQUEEZE A
TRIANGLE INTO ROUND SPACE BUT
THESE ARE DIFFICULT AND YOU
KNOW, YOU'VE POINTED OUT SOME
OF THE DIFFICULTY TONIGHT,
CHRIS, IF I MAY REGURGITATE
WHAT I THINK I HEARD HIM SAY
THOUGH IS THAT AT 80 YOU COULD
STILL BE BUILT JUST A SLIGHTLY
SMALLER ONE.
SO I DON'T THINK IT DOESN'T
SOUND LIKE THEY'RE SUCH A
HINDRANCE TO EVEN DOING WHAT
THEY WANT TO DO WITH THE LAND
OR GERMAN.
I'M WONDERING IF THEY COULD
PARK THE CARS MAYBE THE I
PARKED MY CAR IN THE STREET AND
THE STREET WAS ALWAYS FULL BUT
YOU KNOW, I DON'T KNOW TO WHAT
EXTENT THE CARS GOVERN THE SIZE
.
MAYBE THAT'S A QUESTION FOR THE
APPLICANT.
MAYBE IT'S TOO MUCH MUSHING.
I WANT TO ADDRESS JUST ONE
COMMENT THE GOAL OF 80 YEARS
THERE'S KIND OF A MISCONCEPTION
ABOUT 80S I THINK IN TOWN AND
IT'S NOT ALWAYS ABOUT INCREASED
DENSITY OR ADDING MORE PEOPLE
ON A PROPERTY.
IT'S JUST ALSO TO GIVE MORE
OPTIONS AND GREATER
FLEXIBILITY.
THIS HOME ALREADY HAS SIX
OCCUPANTS.
THEY'RE JUST IN FOUR BEDROOMS
SO THIS WOULD GIVE TWO MORE
BEDROOMS TO BE A SIX BEDROOM,
SIX OCCUPANT PROPERTY.
SO IT'S JUST A DIFFERENT
HOUSING OPTION.
IT'S NOT ALWAYS ABOUT
INCREASING DENSITY IN THE
NUMBER OF PEOPLE ON A PROPERTY
IN EVERY CASE.
IN SOME CASES YES THAT CAN
HAPPEN BUT IT'S NOT ALWAYS
ABOUT THAT AND THERE'S YEARS
CANNOT BE SHORT TERM RENTALS AS
WELL.
SO ONE THING ONE QUICK THING.
YES, GOOD.
I'M REALLY GLAD YOU GUYS ARE
CONCERNED ABOUT THE PARKING ON
WALL STREET.
I'M GLAD WE'RE GETTING OFF THE
ROAD UP THE WATER HILL STUFF ON
THE STREET.
WE'RE READY FOR MOTION IS
REALLY IS WELL
EMOTIONAL
WHOEVER'S READY JUST HAD PEOPLE
OUT THERE.
THE STAFF HERE IS GENEROUSLY
LAID A BUNCH OF PREDRAFT AND
MOTIONS ON MY TABLE.
>> SO IT MAKES IT REALLY EASY
FOR ME AND I'M ALWAYS HAPPY TO
FACILITATE MEETING MOVING
FORWARD BY MAKING THE MOTIONS
SINCE I HAVE THEM IN FRONT FOR
ME TO BEGIN ZIBA TWENTY THREE
THAT'S ZERO ZERO THREE ONE FIVE
THIRTY SIX WALNUT STREET IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE ESTABLISHED
STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL, THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS HEREBY
GRANTS A ONE HUNDRED TWENTY
FIVE SQUARE FOOT TEN PERCENT
VARIANCE FROM SECTION FIVE
POINT SIXTEEN POINT SIX D
ACCESSORY USERS AND STRUCTURES
TO CONSTRUCT A FIVE HUNDRED
NINETY NINE SQUARE FOOT
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT EIGHTY
YOU IN THE REAR YARD THE ADA
YOU WILL MEET THE SET BACKS AND
HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
>> THE ACCESSORY STRUCTURE IS
TO BE BUILT PER THE SUBMITTED
PLANS.
>> THANK YOU DAVE.
WE HAVE A MOTION TO HAVE
SUPPORT FOR IT.
THANK YOU CHRIS.
MIKE YES DAVE.
DAVE ALREADY?
YES CHRISTINA YES.
TODD.
WE NO CHRIS NO GRACE NO.
I ALSO WANT NO DRAMA NO SIDRAH
YES.
WITH FOUR YESES THE REQUEST IS
DENIED THROUGH THE DIFFICULT
MOVING ON TO PETITION CBA
TWENTY THREE DASH ZERO ZERO
THREE TWO EIGHT THREE FIVE
REDEEMER AVENUE JOHN
TRI-COUNTY
BUILDERS REPRESENTING THE
PROPERTY OWNER ARE REQUESTING A
TEN FOOT VARIANCE FROM TABLE
FIVE POINT SEVENTEEN DASH ONE
SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
DIMENSIONS TO CONSTRUCT A TWO
STOREY ADDITION TO THE REAR
OF THE EXISTING RESIDENCE.
THE PROPOSED ADDITION WILL
CONTAIN ONE CAR GARAGE AND
MUDROOM AND STAIRS LEADING TO
THE SECOND STORY.
THE SECOND STORY WILL CONTAIN
AN OFFICE AND A BATHROOM.
THE PROPERTY IS OWNED OR ONCE A
SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
AND REQUIRES A MINIMUM 30 FOOT
REAR YARD SETBACK.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
ON THE EAST SIDE OF REDEEMER
AVENUE, NORTH OF PAULENE
BOULEVARD IN THE PAULENE ACRES
SUBDIVISION.
THE HOME WAS BUILT IN NINETEEN
FIFTY THREE AND IS
APPROXIMATELY ONE THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET IN SIZE.
THE EXISTING ONE CAR DETACHED
GARAGE WILL BE REMOVED TO ALLOW
FOR THE NEW CONSTRUCTION OF THE
PROPOSED TWO STOREY ADDITION.
THE ADDITION WILL NOT MEET THE
REQUIRED YARD SET BACK BUT WILL
COMPLY WITH THE REQUIRED FIVE
FOOT SIDE YARD SETBACK.
YOU TURN YOUR ATTENTION TO THE
MONITORS, YOU'LL SEE THE
SUBJECT PROPERTY IS HIGHLIGHTED
IN BLUE AT THE CENTER OF YOUR
SCREEN.
THIS IS ZONING MAP AND YOU SEE
PAULENE TO THE SOUTH.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE LOCATION
MAP.
YOU SEE THE SUBJECT PROPERTY
AND THE SURROUNDING PROPERTIES
AND EXISTING CONDITIONS AND THE
NEXT SLIDE IS THE ZOOMED IN
AERIAL PHOTO OF THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY YOU SEE TO THE SOUTH
OF THE PROPERTY.
BUT EXISTING DETACHED GARAGE
HAS TO BE DEMOLISHED AND THE
NEW ADDITION IS GOING TO BE
BUILT IN THAT GENERAL LOCATION
.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE EXISTING
SITE LAND AND SURVEY THAT WAS
SUBMITTED WITH THE APPLICATION
YOU SEE WHERE THE EXISTING
DETACHED GARAGE IS GOING TO BE
DEMOLISHED AND THEN THE NEW
PROPOSED TWO STOREY ADDITIONS
AND THEN THE DISTANCE TO THE
REAR LINE OF TWENTY
WHICH
REQUIRES THIRTY FEET.
>> THIS IS THE FIRST FLOOR PLAN
FIRST FLOOR PLAN AT THE OF THE
ADDITIONS YOU SEE THE PROPOSED
NEW GARAGE ALONG WITH THE
MUDROOM AND THE CONNECTION TO
THE HOME INTO THE KITCHEN.
AND THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE
SECOND FLOOR PLAN WITH THE
OFFICE AND A HALLWAY IN A
BATHROOM.
NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE PROPOSED
SIDE ELEVATION OR THE S
ELEVATION OF THE NEW TWO STOREY
EDITION AND ITS RELATIONSHIP TO
THE EXISTING HOME AND THEN THE
NEW FRONT ELEVATION OF THE WEST
ELEVATION AND SHOWS THE THE
PROPOSED ADDITIONS.
NEXT ELEVATION IS THE NORTH
ELEVATION AND THEN THE EAST
ELEVATION.
THIS IS THE BUILDING SECTION
THAT'S BEING PROPOSED THE
GARAGE, THE MUDROOM AND IN THE
BACK IN THE HALLWAY IN THE
OFFICE CROSS SECTION OF THE
PROPOSED BUILDING THE
CONSTRUCTION PLANS THESE ARE
THE PHOTOS I TOOK OUT MY
INSPECTION OF THE PROPERTY YOU
SEE FROM THE FRONT OF THE
STREET THE FRONT ELEVATION THE
NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE EXISTING
ONE CAR GARAGE IN THE SOUTH
FLAT LINE RELATIONSHIP THE
NEIGHBORING FENCE NEXT SLIDE
SHOWS THE I'M STANDING ABOUT
WHERE THE EXISTING DETACHED
GARAGES AND LOOKING AT THE REAR
YARD AND YOU SEE THE ABIDING
PROPERTY, YOU SEE THE SLOPING
TOPOGRAPHY, EXISTING FENCE
BETWEEN THE TWO PROPERTIES AND
THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE
BACKYARD OF THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY AND THE ABUTTING
PROPERTY.
>> THIS IS LOOKING AT THE BACK
OF A GARAGE IN THE BACK OF THE
HOME, ANOTHER ANGLE OF THE BACK
OF THE GARAGE IN THE BACK
OF THE HOME.
THIS IS LOOKING DIRECTLY AT THE
SIDE THE NORTH SIDE OF THE
GARAGE AND THEN THE BACK OF THE
BACK YARD OF THE BOTTOM
PROPERTY THE LEFT AND THE
ADJACENT PROPERTY TO THE SOUTH
AND IN THE BACKGROUND THAT IS
THE END OF SLIDES IN MY
PRESENTATION AT THIS TIME I'LL
TAKE ANY QUESTIONS THAT YOU MAY
HAVE.
>> THANK YOU, JOHN.
ANY QUESTIONS TED?
KNOW, JOHN, I THINK THE NEW THE
TWO STORY ADDITION BUMPS OUT A
LITTLE BIT BEYOND WHERE THE
EXISTING DETACHED GARAGE IS
LIKE LIKE A FOOT OR TWO IT
LOOKS LIKE IT'S VERY CLOSE.
YES.
AND THEY CAN'T GO MUCH FARTHER
IT LOOKS LIKE BECAUSE OF THE
SMOKE.
THAT'S CORRECT.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS, JOHN?
>> ALL RIGHT.
IF THE PETITIONERS HERE HE CAN
COME FORWARD, PLEASE SIGN IN
STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE RECORD.
>> YOU'LL HAVE FIVE MINUTES.
I MEAN I DON'T KNOW WHAT ELSE I
CAN SAY.
>> JOHN DID A PRETTY GOOD JOB
THERE.
I GOT TO STOP DOING THAT.
MY NAME'S CHRIS TRI-COUNTY
BUILDERS.
>> WELL, NOT IN HERE.
I CAN'T DO TWO THINGS AT ONCE
ALWAYS CHRIS TRI-COUNTY
BUILDERS THE GROUND WAS ALREADY
EXISTING.
WE ARE I THINK IT'S A FOOT
WE'RE GOING UP OUTSIDE THE
EXISTING SCEPTERED AND THAT'S
UP FOOTPRINT.
THERE'S AN EXISTING SLABACH
THERE ALREADY SO WE'RE GOING TO
NEED ALL THE IMPERVIOUS AREA
ASPECTS IF ANYTHING WOULD BE A
LITTLE BIT LESS I THINK WITH
THE NEW ADDITIONS IT'S A SMALL
GROWING FAMILY.
>> WE TRIED TO MAKE THE
BASEMENT A BETTER LIVING SPACE
A FEW YEARS AGO AND IT JUST WAS
NOT ADAPTED TO WHAT THEY HAD.
THERE'S NO MORE ROOM SPACE
THERE YOU GO IN THE FRONT DOOR
AND I TALK FUNNY.
YOU GO IN THE FRONT DOOR,
THERE'S JUST NO WAY TO PUT
ANYTHING DOWN THE BACK DOOR.
THERE'S IMMEDIATELY STEPS SO
THERE'S JUST NOT MUCH ROOM FOR
SCHOOL GEAR AND EVERYTHING ELSE
.
THEN THEY ALSO JUST WANTED THE
ATTACHED GARAGE VERSUS DETACH
THAT WAS THERE'S ONLY A COUPLE
OF FEET BARELY BETWEEN THE
HOUSE IN THE EXISTING GARAGE.
>> ANY QUESTIONS?
THANK YOU.
QUESTIONS FOR THE PETITIONER.
HOW MANY CHILDREN ARE IN THE
FAMILY OR HOW MANY FAMILY
MEMBERS TOTAL I THIRD ARE THREE
AS OF NOW THE QUESTIONS.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
IF THERE'S ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION, I DO ALSO HAVE
NUMEROUS LETTERS THAT ARE IN
THE AREA IN SUPPORT OF THE
PROJECT.
I THINK THE ONE AND ANOTHER ONE
WAS A RENTAL AND THEY SAID THEY
NEED SUPPORT BUT DON'T HAVE I
DON'T KNOW IF IT'S A BETTER
RENTAL BUT A YOU KNOW, THEY
WERE IN SUPPORT ALSO DID NOT
SUBMIT SUBMITTED THE STUFF WE
HAVE ALL THAT CORRESPONDENCE
AND THAT WILL BE MENTIONED AT
THE END OF THE HEARING.
>> GO.
THANK THANK YOU.
THERE'S ANYONE HERE WHO WISHES
TO SPEAK PLEASE COME FORWARD IF
THERE'S ANYONE ACCESSING
REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
RAISE YOUR HAND OR USE THE
RAISE HAND FEATURE ON THE
WEBLINK.
>> NO CALLERS AT THIS TIME.
THANK YOU JOHN.
I WILL NOTE WE DID RECEIVE IN
OUR PACKETS LETTERS OF SUPPORT
FROM JOHN CLARKE AND DIANA
GATES AT EIGHT FORTY REDEEMER
AND RAPHAEL SWEET AND KATE
WELLS AT EIGHT FORTY HEWAT AS
WELL AS A LETTER OF SUPPORT
FROM JOHNNY OSER B I BELIEVE
THOSE ARE THE ONLY THREE WE
HAVE IN HERE WITHOUT THE PUBLIC
HEARINGS CLOSED DURING
DISCUSSION I ACTUALLY DO HAVE A
COUPLE OF QUESTIONS THAT ARE
PROBABLY BETTER ASK OUR STAFF
SO THIS I DID LOOK AT THIS AND
THIS HAS ALTHOUGH IT DOESN'T
HAVE AS BIG OF A LOT BY ANY
MEASURE AS THE FIRST PETITIONER
DID TONIGHT THIS HAS A JUST AS
DRASTIC IN THE REAR AND THE IS
AMAZING.
IT MAKES IT HARD TO DO ANYTHING
IN THAT REGARD.
BUT MY QUESTION, JOHN, IS WHEN
WE'RE LOOKING AT THESE SETBACKS
FOR THE REAR SETBACK BECAUSE
THIS IS ON A DIAGONAL AND I'M
LOOKING AT THESE LINES HOW DO
WE MEASURE THIS BECAUSE PART
OF THE HOUSE IS WELL ENOUGH
SETBACK.
BUT THEN WHEN YOU GET OVER TO
THIS CORNER WHERE IT'S SO
WHERE THAT LOT LINE IS SO TIGHT
TO WHERE THE GARAGE IS NOW,
WHAT ARE WE MEASURING FROM SO
AND TO THIS LINE IN THIS LINE
THE SIDE YARD OK, THIS LINE
RIGHT HERE IS THE REAR YARD.
OK AND SO ON THE SURVEY FROM
HERE THEY MEASURED FROM HERE TO
HERE IT'S IT'S THIRTY THIRTY
SUPPOSED BE THIRTY FEET THEY'RE
SHOWING TWENTY
THIS THIS RIGHT
HERE DOESN'T COUNT RIGHT HERE
THAT'S A SIDE THAT'S THE SIDE
YEAH FROM THIS FROM THIS YEAH
.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS TUT I'M
LEANING IN FAVOR OF THIS FOR
SUDBURY'S BUT ONE THE NEW
EDITION IS ESSENTIALLY GOING TO
BE ON THE FOOTPRINT OF THE
EXISTING GARAGE AND NUMBER TWO
IF THOUSAND SQUARE FEET IS
PRETTY SMALL I LIVED IN A 900
SQUARE FOOT HOUSE WHEN I WAS
NEWLY MARRIED BUT DIDN'T HAVE
KIDS AND WITH ONE KID IT'S A
LITTLE TIGHT.
IT'S DOABLE BUT I THINK
ESPECIALLY GIVEN THAT YOU'RE
SORT OF REPLACING THE GARAGE
AND PUSHING IT UP A LITTLE
SEEMS PRETTY REASONABLE TO ME.
SO I THINK I'LL BE VOTING FOR
ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION.
>> WE'RE READY FOR MOTION.
THIS IS OUR DEMAND.
YES, OK IF THAT'S OK WITH YOU
PARDON ME.
I'M I'M GRAPPLING WITH THIS
BECAUSE I'M CHALLENGED BY THE
RELATIONSHIP OF THIS WITH THE
FIRST PETITIONER TONIGHT AND
THEY'RE BOTH HOUSES WITH UH
PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES BECAUSE
OF THE PRIMARILY ON BOTH AND
THIS IS A MUCH SMALLER LOT LESS
SUBSTANTIAL BACK YARD.
BUT IT ALSO BECAUSE OF THE
TIGHTNESS OF THE SIDEWALK THIS
WHOLE NEIGHBORHOOD EARLIER
TODAY THE HOUSES ARE PRETTY
TIGHTLY SQUEEZED IN HERE AND
THIS SHAPE OF THIS LOT IS
DISTINCT, DISTINCTIVE AND
DIFFERENT FROM MANY OF THE
OTHER RECTANGULAR LOTS IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD WHICH I THINK
PRESENTS A REAL CHALLENGE ON
THIS REAR SETBACK MEASUREMENT
AND FOR THAT REASON AND LOOKING
AT THE HOW MUCH OF THE BACKYARD
IS STILL USABLE, I'M GOING TO
SUPPORT THIS BECAUSE REALLY
IT'S NOT REALLY COMPROMISING
THE BACKYARD.
IT'S BASICALLY REPLACING THE
GARAGE AND ATTACHING IT.
>> ADDITIONALLY, I THINK THE
SUPPORT OF THE NEIGHBORS IS
REALLY PERSUASIVE TO ME IN
TERMS OF JUSTICE TO THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND EFFECT THE
AFFECT OF OTHER RESIDENTS THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND THAT'S ANOTHER
THING THAT WEIGHS IN FAVOR
OF THIS.
SO EVEN THOUGH I'M GRAPPLING
WITH THE JUXTAPOSITION OF US
WITH THE EARLIER PETITIONER ON
THIS ONE, I WILL VOTE IN FAVOR
JUST TO PIGGYBACK ON THAT A
LITTLE BIT, DAVE, FOR ME IT
MAKES A DIFFERENCE THAT THIS IS
IN THE REAR AND NOT IN THE
FRONT.
SO I AM INCLINED TO SUPPORT
THIS ONE
AS WELL.
THERE'S NO OTHER DISCUSSION.
I THINK WE'RE READY.
I AGREE.
>> JUST GOING TO MAKE THE
MOTION THIS TIME.
OK, GO FOR BASED ON THE
FOLLOWING FINDINGS AND IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE ESTABLISHED
STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL, THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS HEREBY
GRANTS A TEN FOOT VARIANCE FROM
TABLE FIVE POINT ONE SEVEN DASH
ONE SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING
DISTRICT DIMENSIONS TO
CONSTRUCT A TWO STOREY ADDITION
TO THE REAR OF THE EXISTING
RESIDENCE.
>> THE PROPERTY REQUIRES A 30
FOOT SET BACK.
THE ADDITION WILL ENCOURAGE TEN
FEET INTO THE YARD SET BACK.
THE ADDITION IS TO BE BUILT PER
THE SUBMITTED PLANS.
THANK YOU CHRIS.
WE HAVE A MOTION TO SUPPORT
SUPPORT.
THANK YOU KRISTINA.
>> THANK YOU.
UM, WHERE TO START THIS TIME
TODD?
>> YES, CHRIS, I SUPPORT CHRIS
.
YES, I ALSO VOTE YES.
YES, SADARA YES.
>> MIKE YES.
BA'ATH PARTY.
YES KRISTINA YES.
THE REQUEST IS GRANTED.
>> MOVING ON TO PETITION ZIBA
TWENTY THREE DASH ZERO ZERO
THREE THREE EIGHT ONE NINE
RUSSETT ROAD ARCHITECTURAL
RESOURCE REPRESENTING THE
PROPERTY OWNER ARE REQUESTING
RELIEF FROM SECTION FIVE POINT
THIRTY TWO POINT TWO
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE IN
ORDER TO CONSTRUCT A SECOND
STORY ADDITION VERTICALLY TO
THE EXISTING NONCONFORMING
RESIDENTS.
THE BUILDING IS FOUR FEET TEN
POINT FIVE INCHES FROM THE SIDE
LOFT LINE AND THE PROPOSED
SECOND STORY ADDITIONS WILL BE
CONSTRUCTED ON TOP OF THE
EXISTING NONCONFORMING FIRST
FLOOR.
THE PROPOSED ADDITIONAL MAT
ENCROACH FURTHER INTO THE
REQUIRED FIVE FOOT SIDE YARD
SETBACK.
THE PROPERTY IS ON OUR ONE SEE
SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
ON THE EAST SIDE OF RUSSETT
ROAD NORTH OF PAULENE BOULEVARD
IN THE PAULINE ACRE
SUBDIVISION.
THE HOME WAS BUILT IN NINETEEN
FIFTY FIVE IS APPROXIMATELY ONE
THOUSAND EIGHTY TWO SQUARE FEET
IN SIZE.
THE NEW SECOND STOREY
ADDITIONAL INCLUDE THREE
BEDROOMS, TWO BATHROOMS AND AN
OPEN OUTSIDE THE OFFICE HAS
HIGH CEILINGS THAT CREATE
ACCESS AND VISUAL CONNECTION TO
A LOFT ABOVE FOR A THIRD STORY
THE SECOND STORY WILL BE ONE
THOUSAND TWO HUNDRED TWENTY
NINE SQUARE FEET AND AREA.
THE THIRD FLOOR LOFT WILL BE A
LOFT AREA THAT IS ONE HUNDRED
FIFTY THREE SQUARE FEET IN SIZE
THAT DOES NOT INCLUDE THE
MECHANICAL ROOM.
YOU TURN YOUR ATTENTION TO THE
MONITORS YOU'LL SEE THE FIRST
SLIDE IS THE ZONING MAP AND YOU
SEE THE HIGHLIGHTED PASTEL IN
BLUE AND IT'S JUST RIGHT AROUND
THE CORNER FROM THE PREVIOUS
PARTITION SAME NEIGHBORHOOD.
THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE
LOCATION MAP SURROUNDING
PROPERTIES AND EXISTING
CONDITIONS AND THEN NEXT SLIDE
IS THE ZOOMED IN AERIAL PHOTO
OF THE SUBJECT PROPERTY AND THE
NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY THAT
WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION AND ON THIS SIDE
AND THIS CORNER RIGHT HERE IT'S
APPROXIMATELY ONE AND A HALF TO
TWO INCHES FROM THE SITE MAYBE
FROM MEETING THE SITE.
>> THE REQUIRED FIVE SET BACK
SO IT'S FOUR FEET TEN INCHES ON
ONE SIDE AND FOUR TEN AND A
HALF INCHES ON THE OTHER WON'T
BE ENCROACHING ANY FURTHER.
>> IT'S JUST A SECOND STORY
ADDITIONAL STRAIGHT UP.
THAT'S WHY IT'S AN ALTERATION.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS A STEP BACK
AND FOOTPRINT KIND OF A SITE
PLAN DESIGN DEVELOPMENT SLIDE.
YOU CAN SEE THEY'VE PUT THE SET
BACKS AND THE RED AND SHOW THE
EXISTING HOUSE AND HOW THE WITH
THE MINIMAL ENCROACHMENT INTO
BOTH SIDES EFFECTS.
NEXT SLIDE IS THE BASEMENT
FLOOR PLAN THAT THEY'VE
SUBMITTED.
THERE'S PROBABLY I THINK
THERE'S GONNA BE SOME
REMODELING OF THAT AND THEN THE
NEXT SLIDE IS THE FIRST FLOOR
PLAN AND THE NEXT SLIDE IS
SHOWING THE NEW SECOND FLOOR
PLAN TO GO OVER THE EXISTING
FIRST FLOOR.
YOU SEE TWO BEDROOMS HERE THIS
IS AN OFFICE THAT'S OPEN ABOVE
TO THE NEXT THIRD FLOOR ABOUT
AN OUTDOOR DECK RIGHT HERE AND
THEN THE PRIMARY BEDROOM IS
RIGHT THERE.
SO THREE NEW BEDROOMS AND
OFFICE AND OUTDOOR OPEN DECK
AND THEN THIS IS THE LOFT FLOOR
PLAN SHOWING YOU WELL KNOW WHAT
HAPPENED THERE.
>> THIS IS THE LOFT FLOOR PLAN
RIGHT HERE AND THEN OPEN AREAS
MECHANICAL ROOM OPEN TO THE
BELOW OPEN BELOW JUST THE THIS
IS THE ROOF PLAN THAT WAS
SUBMITTED WITH THE APPLICATION
AND THESE ARE THE WEST EXTERIOR
ELEVATION.
THIS IS THE FRONT OF THE HOME
FACE FACING RUSSET ROAD AND YOU
SEE THE SECOND FLOOR BEING
ADDED ON TOP AND THEN THAT
LITTLE LOFT AREA THIS IS FROM
THE SOUTH SIDE NEW SOUTH
EXTERIOR ELEVATION EAST
EXTERIOR ELEVATION OR FROM THE
REAR YARD THE NORTH EXTERIOR
ELEVATION.
THESE ARE PHOTOS THAT WERE
SUBMITTED WITH THE APPLICATION
BY THE APPLICANT
AND THESE ARE
MY PHOTOS THAT I TOOK ON MY
INSPECTION AND YOU SEE THE
FRONT OF THE HOUSE IN ITS
CURRENT CONDITION THE SIDE
GARAGE, THE SIDE S PROPERTY
AREA.
THIS IS THE RELATIONSHIP
BETWEEN THE TWO THE NEIGHBOR,
THE TWO STRUCTURES THIS IS THE
PHOTO FROM THE REAR YARD.
THAT'S ALL I HAVE AT THIS TIME.
I CAN TAKE ANY QUESTIONS THAT
YOU MAY HAVE.
>> THANKS, JOHN.
QUESTIONS RIGHT.
>> NO QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONERS READY.
YOU CAN COME FORWARD.
PLEASE SIGN IN STATE YOUR NAME
FOR THE RECORD.
YOU'LL FIVE MINUTES
.
>> ALL RIGHT.
GOOD EVENING EVERYBODY.
MY NAME IS JEFF KNIGHT AND I'M
ONE OF THE CO-OWNERS OF EIGHT
NINE EIGHT ONE NINE RUSSETT
ROAD WITH MY WIFE ISABELLE
MINOR AND SO THANK YOU FOR
CONSIDERING OUR APPLICATION.
ALSO WITH US IS DALE BABCOCK
FROM ARCHITECTURAL RESOURCE WHO
DESIGNED THE HOUSE AND JUST THE
MAIN THINGS WE WANT TO TOUCH ON
IS, YOU KNOW, THE DESIGN WE
WANTED TO BUILD ON JUST THE
EXISTING FOOTPRINT, NOT EXPAND
THEIR NONCONFORMITY.
WE DISCUSSED OPTIONS WITH DALE
AND HIS TEAM AT ONE POINT AND
WE ACTUALLY WANTED TO CHOOSE
THIS OPTION SO THAT WE WOULDN'T
HAVE ANY NEW INCURSION INTO THE
SITES BACKS.
YOU KNOW, WE LOVE THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD.
WE'VE LIVED THERE FOR ABOUT
SEVEN YEARS NOW AND WE ALWAYS
HAD A VISION.
YOU KNOW, AS WE EXPAND OUR
FAMILY TO HAVE A BIGGER SPOT
FOR THEM.
WE HAVE A DOG ALMOST TWO ALMOST
TWO YEAR OLD SON IS AT HOME BUT
YOU WE JUST LOVE WHERE WE'RE
AT.
WE LOVE THE IDEA OF HIM BEING
ABLE TO WALK TO SCHOOL, GO IN
THE WOODS.
IT'S GOT A NICE, WONDERFUL FEEL
AND ALSO WE LIKE IN THIS
KEEPING THE EXISTING STRUCTURE
AND NOT HAVING TO DEMOLISH AND
BUILD A WHOLE NEW IT'S IT'S A
REALLY WELL-BUILT HOUSE WAS
REALLY WELL TAKEN CARE OF BY
THE FIRST FAMILY.
KRIS KRISTOFFERSON WE WERE
THERE FOR ABOUT FORTY YEARS AND
I JUST LIKE THE IDEA OF BEING
ABLE TO USE THAT AND
INCORPORATE THAT INTO THIS
STRUCTURE OUTSIDE OF THAT I'D
JUST POINT THAT, YOU KNOW, WE
TALKED ABOUT A LOT WITH
NEIGHBORS BUT I THINK THEY MADE
A LOT OF LETTERS OF SUPPORT AND
ONE THING WE NOTICED ACTUALLY
IS WE BELIEVE IN OUR PACKARD WE
HAD TWO LETTERS IN THERE, ONE
FROM OUR NEIGHBOR TO THE NORTH
AND THE SOUTH WHICH ARE THE
SITES THAT BACKS
OF ENTHUSIASTIC SUPPORT BUT
THEY WEREN'T INCLUDED.
I DO HAVE ADDITIONAL COPIES
HERE IF ANYBODY WANTS TO SEE
THEM OR READ THEM BUT OUTSIDE
THAT THANK YOU FOR CONSIDERING
THANK YOU.
>> QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER'S DPH.
>> I JUST WANT TO SAY I WALKED
IN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD TODAY AND
I HAVEN'T REALLY SPENT ANY TIME
NICE NEIGHBORHOOD SINCE HIGH
SCHOOL WHICH WAS A LONG TIME
AGO AND WE USED TO HANG OUT IN
FOR ITS PART AND THAT'S SUCH A
WONDERFUL WOODSY PLACE WHEN I
WAS IN HIGH SCHOOL I DIDN'T
HAVE A BARRICADED OFF FROM
PAULINE SO WE COULD ACTUALLY
DRIVE BACK THERE AND DRINK OUR
REFRESHMENTS THAT WE WOULD
DRINK AND AT SOME POINT I'M NOT
SURE IF IT WAS A YEAR OR TWO
AFTER HIGH SCHOOL I PUT THE
BARRICADE IN PAULINE AND WHY
ARE THEY DOING THAT?
YOU KNOW, IT'S LIKE THEY HIGH
SCHOOL STUDENTS CAN'T GET BACK
THERE IN THEIR CARS ANYMORE.
IT'S LIKE THEY STILL GET BACK
THERE.
THEY DO.
BUT IT'S SUCH A WONDERFUL
NEIGHBORHOOD AND IT WAS A REAL
PLEASURE TO WALK THERE.
IT'S I JUST WANTED TO SAY THAT
AND HOPE THAT YOU'RE ENJOYING
THAT WOODS ACROSS THE STREET
BECAUSE IT'S ONE OF THE
WONDERFUL THINGS WE HAVE IN ANN
ARBOR IN CLOSE PROXIMITY TO
SOME OF THESE REALLY MORE
MODEST NEIGHBORHOODS.
MOST OF THE HOUSES STILL ARE
ONE STOREY HOUSES.
THEY'RE ONE OF MY BEST BUDDIES
IN HIGH SCHOOL LIVED KIND
OF AROUND THE CORNER OVER ON
SUNNY SIDE KIND OF DEAD ENDS
THERE AND IT'S JUST ONE
OF THESE UNDER UNDER
APPRECIATED PARTS OF THE
COMMUNITY AND IT WAS WONDERFUL
TO BE ABLE TO BE THERE EARLIER
TODAY.
ANY OF THE QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONERS?
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
IF THERE'S ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION, PLEASE COME
FORWARD NOW IF THERE'S ANYONE
ACCESSING THE MEETING REMOTELY
THAT WISHES TO SPEAK, PLEASE
PRESS STAR NINE TO RAISE YOUR
HAND OR USE THE RAISED HAND
BUTTON THROUGH THE WEBLINK.
>> THERE ARE NO CALLERS AT THIS
TIME.
THANK YOU, JOHN.
AS NOTED BY THE PETITIONERS, WE
DID RECEIVE SEVERAL LETTERS SO
WE HAVE A LETTER OF SUPPORT
FROM NIRAJ GINOSTRA AT EIGHT
TWENTY FIVE RUSSETT ROAD WE
HAVE A LETTER OF SUPPORT FROM
IVO DANOFF AT EIGHT THIRTY
SEVEN RUSSETT ROAD AND I WILL
APOLOGIZE IF I'M BUTCHERING
ANYONE'S NAMES.
WE HAVE A LETTER OF SUPPORT
FROM JOHNNY O B WE HAVE A
LETTER OF SUPPORT FROM LINDA
PRESS CORNE LET ME SEE HERE
LETTER OF SUPPORT FROM CHRIS
AND PAM LATE AT ONE FOUR ZERO
SIX RUSSELL ROAD I BELIEVE
THAT'S ALL OF THEM SO THAT THE
PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED AND
WE'RE IN DISCUSSION THAT
REFRESHMENTS IS SUCH A BIG
WORD.
BUT I HAVE PRESSED MY FELLOW
BOARD MEMBER TO FIND OUT MORE
SPECIFICALLY SINCE IT WAS A
LONG TIME AGO
BE READY FOR A
MOTION.
>> I JUST WANT TO SAY AGAIN
WE'RE GIVEN FOR THOSE THAT ARE
DOWN HERE WATCHING TV THIS IS
AN ALTERATION TO A NON
CONFORMING STRUCTURE.
I'M GOING TO SUPPORT IT.
IT'S VERY MINIMAL.
IT'S THAT NO CHANGE IN ANY
OF THE NONCONFORMITY AND HAS
THE SUPPORT OF ALL THE
NEIGHBORS.
IT'S EASY FOR US TO SUPPORT US
AND I'M GOING TO BE VOTED IN
FAVOR OF IT.
DO YOU WANT TO THANK YOU, CHRIS
RIGHT.
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
HEREBY GRANTS RELIEF FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT THIRTY TWO
POINT TO ALTERATION TO
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE TO
ALLOW A NEW SECOND STORY TO THE
EXISTING NONCONFORMING
RESIDENTS.
THE BUILDING ENCROACHES TWO
INCHES INTO THE REQUIRED FIVE
FOOT SETBACKS.
THE ADDITION IS TO BE
CONSTRUCTED VERTICALLY ON TOP
OF THE EXISTING NONCONFORMING
FIRST FLOOR.
THE ADDITION WILL NOT ENCROACH
FURTHER INTO THE SIDE YARD
SETBACKS.
THE ADDITION HAS TO BE BUILT
PER THE SUBMITTED PLANS.
>> THANK YOU CHRIS SUPPORT.
THANK YOU DERMO.
MY VOTE YES DARMA YES SEDRA YES
.
MIKE YES.
DAVE DAVE YES.
CHRISTINA YES.
TODD YES.
CHRIS YES YES YES.
REQUESTOR GRANTED MOVING ON TO
UNFINISHED BUSINESS WE HAVE
NONE NEW BUSINESS WE HAVE THE
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR ZIBA
CALENDAR FOR REVIEW AND
APPROVAL.
SO I DIDN'T CHECK JOHN BUT I
ASSUME THAT THIS IS OUR
STANDARD FOURTH WEDNESDAY
OF EVERY MONTH EXCEPT FOR
NOVEMBER AND DECEMBER WHICH ARE
COMBINED TO THE FIRST WEDNESDAY
OF DECEMBER.
THAT IS CORRECT.
I DOUBLE CHECKED TO VERIFY IT
MYSELF.
GREAT AND IT DOESN'T CONFLICT
WITH ANY OF THE HOLIDAYS AND
DAYS THAT WE TRY TO AVOID
HAVING MEETINGS ON IF IT DOES I
WILL BE THE FIRST TO NOTIFY YOU
RIGHT.
ALL RIGHT.
ANY COMMENTS OR QUESTIONS OR
ANY NOTES ON THE CALENDAR?
>> I MAY MISS THE JANUARY
MEETING.
I'M HAVING CATARACT SURGERY SO
I'M LOOKING FORWARD TO IT
BECAUSE I WANT MY VISION BACK.
FAIR ENOUGH.
IT MAY CAUSE ME TO MISS ANY ALL
RIGHT.
NO MORE TEARS.
ALL RIGHT.
DO WE HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE TWENTY TWENTY FOUR ZIBA
MEETING CALENDAR SO MOVED.
THANK YOU, CHRIS.
SUPPORT.
>> THANK YOU GRACE.
ALL IN FAVOR SAY I OPPOSED.
>> ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON TO COMMUNICATE I WILL
SAY I DID FORGET TO MENTION FOR
THE RABANNE ROAD PETITION WE
DID HAVE A LETTER OF SUPPORT
FROM BARBARA ACTUALLY AT ONE
ONE ZERO ONE RED OAK ROAD AND
FROM CAITLIN KELLY AT ONE ONE
ZERO NINE RED OAK ROAD THAT
WE'RE IN THE PACKET.
I MISSED THOSE EARLIER SO THEY
WERE IN THE POCKET?
YES, THEY WERE IN THE PACKET.
IT WAS INCLUDED IN THE AGENDA,
IN THE AGENDA AND ALL THE ITEMS
PUBLIC COMMENT IF ANYONE
REMOTELY SINCE THERE'S NO ONE
ELSE HERE WHICH IS TO ADDRESS
THE ZIBA FOR ANY ANY REASON,
NOW'S THE TIME YOU'LL HAVE
THREE MINUTES PLEASE PRESS STAR
NINE TO RAISE YOUR HAND OR USE
THE RIGHT HAND FEATURE ON THE
WEBLINK I'M NOT SEEING ANY
COLOR.
ALL RIGHT.
THANKS, JOHN.
WITH THAT I HAVE A MOTION TO
ADJOURN SOMEONE HOUSE.
OH SORRY.
THAT HAD SOME COMMUNICATION.
YEAH, I'M SORRY.
I THOUGHT WE WERE STILL IN
COMMUNICATION.
OH THIS IS NEW.
I WAS TOLD THAT IT MIGHT BE
HELPFUL FOR ME TO COME BACK
WITH NEWS ABOUT NEW ZONING
CHANGES PASSED AT THE CITY
COUNCIL TABLE AND I THOUGHT
THAT PERHAPS I COULD RAISE THEM
IN THE COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
SO I CAN LISTEN VERY QUICKLY IF
YOU LIKE.
>> I THINK THAT'S A GREAT IDEA.
ALL RIGHT.
SO ON MONDAY CITY COUNCIL
PASSED A CHANGE TO THE ZONING
CODE ABOUT DOWNTOWN PREMIUM'S
DENHA ONE AND INDEED TWO WE
HAVE HAD SINCE TWENTY NINETEEN
PREMIUMS BASED ON MAXIMUM FLOOR
AREA RATIO AND PREMIUMS THAT
WOULD INCENTIVIZE DEVELOPERS
SUPPOSEDLY TO BUILD AFFORDABLE
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT IF THEY
WANTED TO GO BEYOND THOSE
LIMITS.
BUT THEY RESULTED IN ZERO
AFFORDABLE UNITS AND ALSO
SLOWED GROWTH IN THE DOWNTOWN.
SO WE REMOVED THOSE STILL
EXISTING OUR HEIGHT BONUSES SO
FOR EXTRA HEIGHT YOU CAN GET
EXTRA HEIGHT WITH
SUSTAINABILITY AND
AFFORDABILITY BUILT IN.
THE SECOND THING IS WE MADE A
CHANGE TO AMEND THE TCE ONE THE
TRANSIT ORIENTED CORRIDOR FRONT
SETBACKS WHICH I BELIEVE WERE
INITIALLY SET TO ZERO AND SOME
OF CORRIDORS.
THAT'S AN ISSUE BECAUSE THE
LAND BUTTS UP RIGHT AGAINST A
VERY NARROW SIDEWALK AND NARROW
BIKE LANE.
>> THERE'S JUST NOT A LOT
OF SPACE TO DO THINGS.
SO STAFF CAME UP WITH A WAY TO
MEASURE THE SETBACK FROM THE
CURB LINE TO THE FRONT OF THE
BUILDING SO THAT FOR PLACES
THAT DO ALREADY HAVE WIDE RATES
OF WAY, WE'RE NOT ADDING ALL
OF THIS LIKE GREEN SPACE.
SO THAT IS NEW.
AND THEN WE ALSO APPROVED
BRIARWOOD REZONING FROM OFFICE
AND PARKING LOT TO MIXED USE
RESIDENTIAL.
SO THREE HUNDRED AND FIFTY FOUR
RESIDENTIAL UNITS RETAIL AND
GROCERY STORE TO REPLACE THE
EMPTY SEARS STORE THAT CLOSED
IN TWENTY EIGHTEEN.
>> SO THAT'S IT.
COOL.
THANK YOU.
>> ANY OTHER COMMENTS OR
NEWS TO SHARE RIGHT NOW?
>> ANYONE WITH A MOTION TO
ADJOURN A THANK YOU CHRIS AND
SUPPORT DAVE ALL IN FAVOR.
SAY HI OPPOSED.
>> WE'RE ADJOURNED.
THANKS EVERYONE.